Dr Jameson: There you are. Hi.
Dr Jameson: I always takes a minute he sees, I think.
Dr Jameson: That's everybody in their brother is on zoom. My name is Dr. Jamison you seems like you can hear me okay
Joel Fike: Yeah, I can hear you fine.
Dr Jameson: Okay, great. Um, so if you wouldn't mind just housekeeping, real quick, confirming your name and birthdate for me.
Joel Fike: My name is Joel Anthony fight. My birthday is 126 1987
Dr Jameson: And are you in Ohio. So right
Joel Fike: No, I'm
Dr Jameson: Fine. Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: Um, I had two different people. This morning, and I didn't remember which one was which. Okay, it's
Joel Fike: My Sacramento.
Dr Jameson: Cool. Is it f y ke or if I go
Dr Jameson: Okay, I'm spelling it wrong. That's why it's not pulling up. Okay, gotcha.
Dr Jameson: Alright, so
Dr Jameson: Are you in treatment already or is this the
Joel Fike: Oh no, I just got out of shaming.
Joel Fike: And I went to treatment for February. I think the third or the second of this month.
Dr Jameson: Like an inpatient, you mean like a resident place.
Dr Jameson: And so now you're and they did. They have you on Suboxone while you were there.
Joel Fike: No, they didn't. But I relapsed right when I got out.
Joel Fike: And so I got on it.
Joel Fike: As soon as I got through with that little relapse.
Dr Jameson: Where did you from the ER or how did you
Joel Fike: Find the
Dr Jameson: I see. Okay. And did they recommend they refer you to us.
Joel Fike: Yeah, they did mercy st one hospital. And second, whenever the food.
Dr Jameson: Yes, yes. Okay. All right, so
Dr Jameson: Um, when were you there. Like, when did you first start
Joel Fike: When was I there. I was there on. Let's see here.
Joel Fike: It was the third I think
Dr Jameson: OK. And then so they put you on and what the dose that you're taking
Joel Fike: Two films.
Joel Fike: For seven days they gave me
Dr Jameson: Okay, are they, they ate. Sorry. Hold it up.
Dr Jameson: And you're taking them. When do you take it in the day.
Joel Fike: In the morning
Dr Jameson: Can you take them both.
Joel Fike: Well, I usually take one in the morning and then one later on in the afternoon.
Dr Jameson: And how's that been going for you.
Joel Fike: All right, I feel like I kind of need a little bit more but it's it's been going on right
Dr Jameson: And so that I'm not challenging that I'm just telling me what what what is making you feel that way.
Joel Fike: I just get
Joel Fike: A little bit of like sweaty palms and anxieties, a little bit. So I'm not that hungry.
Dr Jameson: Okay, are you nauseous, or just
Joel Fike: Blow up. No, no, no, no. She's just kind of
Joel Fike: Feel a little bit of like withdrawal symptoms, a little
Dr Jameson: And is that coming like continuously or do you have here.
Joel Fike: Like the longest say don't take it so like
Joel Fike: In the evenings.
Joel Fike: So I could if I took it in the morning and then took it again in the afternoon. By the time I go to bed. I kind of figured that feeling a little bit. Okay.
Dr Jameson: And has that been that's been happening ever since you started it.
Joel Fike: Well, the first two days really rough I've didn't feel good at all. I was pretty sick. And I just toughed it out and after three days I started feeling a little better.
Dr Jameson: Okay, um,
Dr Jameson: And since then has it continued to gradually get better, or would you
That's good.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so the sweaty palms and low appetite is
Joel Fike: It's still there, but it's gotten better from when I first started
Dr Jameson: Actually getting better. Okay. And he said, it's in the evening. So what do you do when that happens.
Joel Fike: I've just been watching TV to fall asleep.
Dr Jameson: Okay. Just, just trying to ignore it. Okay. Well, that's impressive. Good for you.
Joel Fike: I've done, I've gotten off of this before I was in
Joel Fike: A methadone clinic for three years, actually.
Dr Jameson: Like
Joel Fike: 2014 to 2017
Joel Fike: And it was so hard to get off of. And I had to get off of it cold turkey and I was actually in jail and took me like five months to feel normal. So I never want to do that again.
Dr Jameson: Oh, well I mean generally we if we make the decision to discontinue at some point it's done gradually and it doesn't mean you don't have some symptoms, but hopefully not to that.
Dr Jameson: Degree.
Joel Fike: Yeah, the, the jail that I was in custody. Yeah, they wouldn't treat it even with I tried to get him to call my clinic and everything and they wouldn't give me anything. So I just had to cold turkey.
Joel Fike: Just crazy
Dr Jameson: Okay, so let's let me ask a couple other sort of unrelated questions, and then we'll come back to, to the main topic. Are you allergic to any medications.
Joel Fike: No, not that I'm aware of.
Dr Jameson: And do you are you prescribed any other medications.
Dr Jameson: No. Okay, so just the Suboxone for the last week.
Dr Jameson: And that's the first time you've ever
Dr Jameson: Taken you are on methadone before, but you've never been in a car.
Joel Fike: To get on the street a lot
Okay.
Dr Jameson: When you were when you were taking getting yourself what how much like is there a dose that you found that was best for you as far so many in a day.
Joel Fike: Or two and two and a half.
Joel Fike: I was like I was thinking of adding a half that was kind of
Dr Jameson: What I was wondering
Dr Jameson: What okay so that's that's kind of been where your, your receptors seem satisfied, I guess, basically. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so then I know we have the opiates to discuss, but any other medical I'm guessing that really since you're not any other medications. Any other medical
Dr Jameson: Diagnosis problem. Those nations operation.
Joel Fike: No mental house or operations or physical problems. No. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So you have not. I was just going to ask you if you sell to people don't think of it as a medical condition, but any anxiety or PTSD or depression or any any
Joel Fike: Anxieties, not too bad.
Joel Fike: I've had exactly in the past where I've kind of gotten over it.
Joel Fike: Every time I had exact social anxiety for a while, but it was something from some stuff that happened in I kind of grew out of it.
Joel Fike: Was probably like five years ago.
Dr Jameson: Good.
Dr Jameson: We have a lot of patients with social anxiety. So maybe you'll be able to offer some wisdom to some of our other folks about how you, how you work through that that's
Dr Jameson: That's
Joel Fike: Mostly just time
Dr Jameson: pushing against it and carrying on.
Dr Jameson: Yeah yeah
Joel Fike: Yeah, some other reasons why I was getting anything
Joel Fike: Relationship issues.
Dr Jameson: Did you go do any. Well, I'm assuming you've done counseling. If you weren't a week in
Joel Fike: Residential I've done a lot. I do a lot of 12 step stuff.
Dr Jameson: Online. Now how's it
Joel Fike: Going meetings on the line and I meet with my sponsor about three times a week.
Dr Jameson: That's so great. Good, good, good. Okay. And then, did they have you doing individual work when you were in residential treatment.
Joel Fike: Yeah. Well, there are groups all day, mostly
Joel Fike: Okay, we did a, what's it called CVT cognitive or
Joel Fike: Cognitive Behavior.
Dr Jameson: As a group,
Joel Fike: Oh, yeah.
Dr Jameson: Interesting. Okay, cool.
Joel Fike: We got a teacher and they'd come in and do like five classes a day they were their life skills, cognitive, and then
Joel Fike: Stuff Stephen last two because he was through for all for me.
Dr Jameson: Okay. Did you get anything out of any of that. I mean, did it seem helpful.
Joel Fike: Not really for me. I mean, probably, it was good for the first people that have come through there. But for me, the only thing that really keeps me sober is working the 12 steps and was a sponsor.
Joel Fike: That was my
Joel Fike: Choice. I think 30 have I've ever been to.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you heard this all before
Dr Jameson: Yeah, okay. Do you feel like at the beginning it was stuff that was helpful. And now you just know it or it's never really been relevant to you.
Joel Fike: Um, I kind of pay attention for a while, at the beginning, then I started, I don't know. It all just felt like such common sense to me. I was like, I learned all this when I was in fifth grade, so
Dr Jameson: Unfortunately, not everybody has that that foundation so
Dr Jameson: Okay, so then in your fat, so no operations of any kind. Right.
Dr Jameson: And then anybody in your family that has
Dr Jameson: Dealt with or
Dr Jameson: Struggle with addiction or alcoholism. Well, let's so
Joel Fike: Luckily not my immediate family, but you know I have aunts and uncles, but
Joel Fike: My parents, they're not my brother and sister at all.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: Everybody's relatively healthy
Joel Fike: Yeah, I'm the one that got hit with addiction.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: So you said you have parents. And did you say two brothers.
Joel Fike: I have a brother and a sister.
Dr Jameson: Okay, and they're all healthy and doing fine.
Joel Fike: You're doing great.
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Are they supportive
Joel Fike: Yes, they are. They're kind of sick of it because I'm the oldest one. They're just like always, like, when are you gonna pull your head out of your ass and
Joel Fike: So,
Dr Jameson: To a certain degree, but not
Dr Jameson: I guess aunts and uncles on one side of the family, or both.
Joel Fike: Both sides.
Dr Jameson: And what was it alcohol or opiates, or what
Dr Jameson: Both
Joel Fike: Different drugs and alcohol. Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: Are any of them.
Dr Jameson: Are any of them still around, or I mean
Joel Fike: Yeah, they are. They're still in their addiction.
Dr Jameson: Oh, still actively and us. Okay. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: That's a shame. Okay.
Joel Fike: What's bad house.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, it doesn't tend to do good things, as I'm sure I don't need to tell you. Yeah, yeah.
Joel Fike: catches up with you. I can hear in your 50s.
Dr Jameson: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: We're EARLIER. EARLIER.
Dr Jameson: Yes, it does. Um, do you smoke cigarettes.
Joel Fike: Yeah, I do.
Dr Jameson: How, what, what, how are you at music, how much
Joel Fike: Right now I'm mostly raping
Joel Fike: So,
Joel Fike: They've been like a tank a day I'd say it was like a
Joel Fike: seven millimeter tank. No, it's just juice.
Dr Jameson: Okay, I'm
Dr Jameson: Done can call them little cartridges. You're calling it a tank of tanks to me sounds like a ginormous thing.
Joel Fike: It's like that.
Dr Jameson: Okay. Um, so that's quite a bit, then I guess.
Joel Fike: I guess through the whole day. It's not as much is a smoke cigarettes, but normally I smoke like a half a pack a day.
Dr Jameson: Okay, I always wonder about. I mean I questions about Bates, I think we all do, because we've had they haven't been around.
Dr Jameson: enough for us to do all the studies that, see what happens in 20 years after, you know, but so that's a question, but I also see sometimes people because you can kind of fake anywhere now instead of it seems like, I don't know. Sometimes I
Joel Fike: Leave a smell.
Dr Jameson: That's true, but sometimes I feel like people end up being more because they can and if you know what I'm saying, like,
Joel Fike: I don't know, maybe you can also you can get a higher nicotine content.
Joel Fike: With the veil.
Joel Fike: So you don't need to keep smoking I that's just my personal
Joel Fike: Web so
Dr Jameson: Are you trying to quit or you're just just
Joel Fike: I wanted to quit smoking because my vapor. I get my smell and taste back and I don't smoke cigarette smoke.
Dr Jameson: Yeah yeah
Dr Jameson: Do you think you want to quit the vapor to are you going to stick with say
Dr Jameson: Never. Yeah. Um, how about alcohol for you.
Joel Fike: Know not drinking
Dr Jameson: Was it a problem.
Joel Fike: Yeah, I just stay away from. Right. Okay.
Dr Jameson: How long ago did you get. Did you stop drinking
Joel Fike: The last time I drank was when I was the day I went into the hospital that night or the night, the day before I drank a whole bunch of chatter get away from the
Joel Fike: Withdrawal symptoms and it just like when I woke up from the alcohol, it just all made it so much worse. And I just was
Joel Fike: Riding around beginning of this
Joel Fike: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Okay, before that. How long have you been, I guess.
Joel Fike: You haven't been drinking since I've been down at the rehab. So it was like three months before that.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Joel Fike: I haven't been
Joel Fike: Drinking for a while now.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: So you had one one.
Dr Jameson: Is that what you relapse on or you relapse on opiates to
Joel Fike: Kind of Rios relaxing. When I was inside of shame and actually
Joel Fike: Yeah, it was obvious an ACO
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so, and sorry so they weren't get were they giving you methadone or anything in the residential place.
No.
Dr Jameson: So you have withdrawal symptoms, the whole time you were there.
Joel Fike: No, I didn't.
Mean
Joel Fike: This whole crazy thing happened.
Dr Jameson: You just said that you were relaxing. Okay.
Joel Fike: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: But hypothetically, you would have like if you hadn't been relaxing.
Yeah.
Joel Fike: I wouldn't have wouldn't be what I didn't understand that. So,
Well,
Dr Jameson: So normally they do something to help with detox or we you know withdrawal symptoms or something, I guess, not all of them, but
Joel Fike: I actually went in there, there, and I didn't tell him because it was a parole thing I didn't tell him that I was like a language strung out when I came in there.
Joel Fike: And I got in there and I brought in a bunch of Suboxone tells with me from the street. And then once those kind of ran out. I started you know
Joel Fike: Figuring other ways to get heroin there and and a whole big thing happened and I couldn't get it and my heroine got taken and then I went to withdraw was really bad. And it was just ugly mess.
Dr Jameson: Did they kick you out or
Joel Fike: Yeah, they did.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Joel Fike: But I almost completely. I was like,
Joel Fike: Two minutes away.
Dr Jameson: Bleeding. So now, what, what, how does that affect your parole.
Joel Fike: Luckily they
Joel Fike: didn't violate me, which I was really surprised because this coven 19 thing and
Joel Fike: They wanted me to go to a different treatment program. But as soon as I got out, I, I went to my sponsor and I
Joel Fike: started having proof of the 12 step meetings and had my sponsor call them and I just stayed locked in. And I've been reporting to my parole guy every day and doing this re entry packet for him. It's more cognitive behavioral stuff. And so I've just been
Joel Fike: Keeping on a short leash with them and making sure that I'm on track and so they know that they said they're probably not gonna have me go to rehab, since it obviously didn't work. The last time when I told him my feelings about how I know how to stay clean and what works for me. So
Dr Jameson: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Well, and I think if you can be on Suboxone so that withdrawal symptoms aren't an issue that will probably helped a lot. Yeah.
Joel Fike: Yeah, it's a big relief actually
Dr Jameson: Okay. Okay, so
Dr Jameson: Your drug of choice has been a combination of opiates and alcohol. Correct.
Joel Fike: Yeah, I guess.
Joel Fike: I probably mostly just opiates. I usually don't even drink hardly when I go
Dr Jameson: Okay, so. Okay, so to me.
Joel Fike: It's like when I was having withdrawals that I was trying to get away from those job symptoms by drinking
Dr Jameson: Great. I hear that hear that quite a bit people
Dr Jameson: Do other things because they don't feel good.
Dr Jameson: Okay, are you, where are you living at right with who you
Joel Fike: Are living at my parents house.
Dr Jameson: And I realized, you've been not there for very little while but do. Do you have, did you have a job where you working. I mean,
Joel Fike: Yeah, I was. I do. I did she were quite shade.
Joel Fike: teaching me. Yeah.
Joel Fike: Okay, actually climb cheese.
Uh huh.
Dr Jameson: Why there's so many roofers and people climbing up high, when they, when they. Oh, I hear that all the time. It makes me
Dr Jameson: Worried for you guys.
Joel Fike: Just goes with the verse. Now, yes.
Dr Jameson: Alright, so you're did tree trimming not right this very moment, or will you are you back.
Joel Fike: With you I should be going back to work after this coven thing. So it was down
Dr Jameson: Okay, currently furloughed
Joel Fike: Yeah, pretty much.
Joel Fike: Okay.
Joel Fike: And I got put on leave, because I had to go down there. They told me to to calm. I had everything straightened out. So I'm still in the midst of doing that.
Dr Jameson: Sure. Okay. And then
Dr Jameson: Marital status.
Dr Jameson: Single okay
Dr Jameson: Any kids.
No.
Dr Jameson: And
Dr Jameson: How much school did you finish.
Joel Fike: Just High School.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: I guess that's about. Okay, so tell me
Dr Jameson: Sorry, kids at home from covert here.
Joel Fike: Yes, I was wild birds or something.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: They can't just were hit by, you know, they can't hear or see they can hear me talking, but they can't hear. So you just confirm your, your so private. Sorry about that.
Dr Jameson: Um,
Dr Jameson: So tell me how this all came to be. I mean, when did you start
Dr Jameson: How, how did this all happen.
Joel Fike: Like opiate addiction.
Yeah.
Joel Fike: It was something that slowly evolved for me and I didn't really start really being addicted to opiates too late by like 2627
Dr Jameson: Or where was their prescription or what
Joel Fike: I used to not just do other drugs, really we and coke and
Joel Fike: psychedelics and stuff. And then, I don't know, I just say, remember it was oxy Cotton's where my buddy was strung out on me. Let me try some. And I was like, oh yeah. He's awesome.
Joel Fike: Okay.
Dr Jameson: This was in high school, or after
Joel Fike: Away after when I was like 26 that's when
Joel Fike: I had tried opiates all since I've been a teenager, but I never really got addicted to opiates was like
Joel Fike: Yeah, like 26
Dr Jameson: Okay. In high school, and then you got the oxy cotton pills from your friend what at around age 26 and that was that that was that. Okay. Yeah. You know, they don't
Dr Jameson: don't discriminate, I suppose.
Dr Jameson: Okay. So you started using then and that became pretty daily it pretty quickly at that point.
Joel Fike: Yeah yeah
Dr Jameson: Okay, and then you. When did you move to heroin.
Joel Fike: Right right away, pretty much.
Dr Jameson: Cut the pastor
Joel Fike: Yeah, and it's just really available out here.
Dr Jameson: And how are you using that
Joel Fike: Smoking. I never injected
Joel Fike: Okay, he's Nielsen.
Dr Jameson: Okay, good. And how much are you
Joel Fike: Usually over a gram a day.
Dr Jameson: Like one and a half.
Joel Fike: Yeah, probably. That's like the most
Dr Jameson: Up to one point. OK.
Dr Jameson: OK. And then, sorry. So you were, you were using in the program, which I'm not writing down here. Just Not that it matters, but I'm not gonna write it down.
Dr Jameson: How much were you using and they're
Joel Fike: About the same amount. I was going through like a quarter every five days or so.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: And then, sorry. So after you got out. Did you also use opiates.
Joel Fike: For Joe I got out and I got out.
Dr Jameson: Drinking
Joel Fike: No, I didn't. I got out by going to the hospital and then they released me from the hospital and then they told me that I was kicked out. So I came back home with my
Joel Fike: Day I came home from the hospital. I didn't have my script yet. I had to pick it up with the pharmacy so that day I did get a gram. The first day came back and then I picked up my scripts. The next day, and I've been on Suboxone sense
Dr Jameson: And you knew to wait until you felt sick before you started it, I hope.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I guess. Yeah. Good, okay. I'm okay.
Dr Jameson: So, what, what, how can they sent you to the hospital.
Joel Fike: Because I was, I woke up like screaming like seizure and kind of from withdraws
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Joel Fike: I guess I was laying there like screaming and riding around in my bed.
Joel Fike: And
Joel Fike: I was like screaming I need to go to the hospital. So they call the
Joel Fike: Ambulance
Dr Jameson: Do you remember it or you don't even remember.
Dr Jameson: Sounds pretty unpleasant.
Joel Fike: It was a nightmare.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so let me just, I have, we have to run. Everybody through
Dr Jameson: The database that looks at prescriptions that you've filled before so
Dr Jameson: Routine thing.
Dr Jameson: So they explained to you that you need to have bloodwork done
Dr Jameson: Yeah labs, it's blood and urine. But anyway.
Dr Jameson: It's sorry 126 87. Is that right,
Joel Fike: Yeah, sure.
Dr Jameson: I flipped out of the screen, I lose when I started
Joel Fike: Yeah, they have one of those quest diagnostic places real close to my house and
Dr Jameson: Beautiful, so you'll be able to get
Dr Jameson: There you think
Dr Jameson: The next day or so.
Joel Fike: Yeah, sure, sure. Okay.
Dr Jameson: I find that if we don't just do it instantly it becomes harder and harder for people to remember to get there. So,
Dr Jameson: I just
Dr Jameson: Come to just
Dr Jameson: Insist that it happens in the first two, you know, before you get another refill. I'll say, I'll send medicine today. You gotta be out here shortly, but after that.
Dr Jameson: Time if next time we meet it hasn't at least been drawn
Dr Jameson: Then
Dr Jameson: We'll have to
Dr Jameson: Make adjustments.
Dr Jameson: And the way that we, I should say, you know, the way that we kind of approach this whole process is
Dr Jameson: We don't expect. I mean, you'd like to see, you know, complete abstinence from and I mean that is the goal, but
Dr Jameson: We also know that there can be you know blips along along that that way. And hopefully the Suboxone will make that minimal but
Dr Jameson: In other words, like if you do a drug test and something is in there that isn't supposed to be, or you don't. Well, it's more problematic if you test negative for the Suboxone because then we have to wonder where it's going.
Dr Jameson: But if you're testing positive for things that we're
Dr Jameson: hoping not to see
Dr Jameson: We want to talk to you about it. We want to see, you know,
Joel Fike: Your
Dr Jameson: You know, open about it. We want to see that you are working on figuring out what was happening, what was your mindset, what, why, why did what was the trip. You know, like
Dr Jameson: Learning from it and trying to use it to move forward. So we're not, we don't kick people out for having a relapse. It's more about we, you know,
Dr Jameson: If there's no sign of any
Dr Jameson: Interest in
Joel Fike: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Does that make sense.
Joel Fike: Yeah, you're not gonna you're not doing the program, then yeah.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, if you're not here to actually change yourself or try different things and you know be
Joel Fike: Here to take so
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so
Dr Jameson: That's kind of where we're where we try to work with.
Dr Jameson: People not just kick them out because they had made one one bad choice or bad choices. But anyway, I'm just so you know, because I think sometimes people are avoiding the last because they know what's going to be in there and they're afraid that that's going to have some sort of
Dr Jameson: Consequences, so be reassured. I mean, we want to know what's really going on. Otherwise, what is the point. I mean, we're kind of
You know,
Dr Jameson: Sort of people right if we're not really
Joel Fike: Dealing with reality. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: So that's kind of how we hit. So anyway, so if there might be something in your urine that it was supposed to be besides Suboxone okay well
Dr Jameson: As long as you're open about it, then it's not necessarily a problem at least right if it keeps happening. And there's no sign of any, you know, then that's a problem but
Joel Fike: OK, I'll get right on that. So what, how does it work. Did you
Joel Fike: Do today. I mean, I just go in there and tell them that I needed.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. What I would, what I would suggest
Dr Jameson: What I would suggest you do they have facts in order with your name on it to
Dr Jameson: Question now.
Dr Jameson: Are sent it. I don't know if it's electric electronic email or fax but
Dr Jameson: That sometimes things are like don't show up where they're supposed to be. So what I would suggest is you call your local lab.
Dr Jameson: And see if you can confirm that they can find an order under your name in their system just to make sure it's already there. If they can't, then I would call back to the virtual clinic and say the lab doesn't have my order. What should we do
Dr Jameson: And once you're, you know, confirm that they have an order for you so you don't
Dr Jameson: Go down there and then get annoyed that they don't that's worse then you can I think they schedule appointments. If you want to on their website, or you can just go and show up and wait but
Dr Jameson: You can talk to them about when the best time for you to come in there would be
Dr Jameson: And what we're checking for we do the urine. The drug screen, but we also do some basic blood work which hasn't. You know when you're prescribing a medication you like to confirm a person has relatively normal kidney and liver function and
Dr Jameson: Just some basic kind of
Dr Jameson: Baseline labs and then we do screen. Everybody, even though it doesn't sound necessarily relevant to you, but we screen for HIV and hepatitis and syphilis, which are things that tend to run in higher
Dr Jameson: Frequencies among this patient demographic. So that's considered, sort of, you know, standard of care. So we do test for those things. I'm sure you've been
Dr Jameson: Tested before. But anyway, um, and I should say if you've had blood work done in the last three months or something somewhere else. We are happy to, like, just get copies of that you don't necessarily have to go get
Joel Fike: I don't think I have
Dr Jameson: Okay. All right, so
Dr Jameson: Island.
Dr Jameson: I apologize. Okay, so that's the first step and then this visit, which we've kind of its there's it sounds. It sounds like you already are pretty familiar with the box on but I do you want to make sure you have the opportunity to ask questions or any any
Dr Jameson: thing you've ever wondered about it, or does it give you any side effects, anything
Joel Fike: No, I don't get any side effects from it.
Joel Fike: In your space new normal.
Dr Jameson: That's the goal.
Dr Jameson: Well thing on. Well, I think what will increase your dose just that half strip a day and you're doing films or tablets.
Joel Fike: Shows. Okay.
Dr Jameson: And that's okay with you that tasted some people don't like
Joel Fike: Yeah, that sounds
Joel Fike: Like to tell
Dr Jameson: People have it's different people. I don't care.
Joel Fike: I don't know why the tablet seem like they don't work for me. I don't know. I don't know why, if you
Joel Fike: Do the same thing and I got on a wire strike. I don't
Dr Jameson: Yeah, there's
Joel Fike: There's almost
Dr Jameson: I guess if they're things you've been buying on the street. It's possible. There are some sort of counterfeit going around, but
Dr Jameson: Know, different people have a different chemistry. And if you know it's a different product. I mean,
Dr Jameson: The drug is the same, but it's packaged it with different you know other ingredients and that can affect how well it is or isn't absorbed for one person differently than another anyway.
Dr Jameson: Fine with me. I think
Dr Jameson: I think medical actually prefers
Dr Jameson: The brand name Suboxone of all things, so
Joel Fike: They do. They
Dr Jameson: Yeah, they must have a, I don't know if they've had some maybe the drug maker and they come to some arrangement at the drug my ears, providing it or I have no idea, but yeah.
Joel Fike: I had a problem with that when I went to the Walgreens.
Joel Fike: They only had the
Joel Fike: Doctor readies
Dr Jameson: Brand. Yeah.
Joel Fike: I had to buy a few of them.
Dr Jameson: Oh, gosh. Well, they should, you should be able to request a reimbursement once the, once the
Dr Jameson: The real supply is in place.
Joel Fike: I don't. Do you have any
Joel Fike: I wonder if they're gonna have a real supply
Dr Jameson: Well, so we can, if
Dr Jameson: We need to try a different pharmacy some sometimes, someone else will have to happen in stock.
Dr Jameson: Centers, they have to order it. And now they've ordered it for you. I don't know if
Dr Jameson: That was just for you or if they just happen to be low. The day that you bought there because you're not the only medical patient, they have, I can assure you, you know what I mean. So
Joel Fike: Yeah, especially where I live. It's
Joel Fike: Ramping out here that
Dr Jameson: May have been a fluky thing, so we'll see. But if if they aren't able to fill it with the brand name, we can always try sending it to a different pharmacy.
Joel Fike: Or
Dr Jameson: Sometimes ask you to help like call around and see who has it.
Dr Jameson: talk today, and then let us know. But anyway, well, we'll cross that bridge. The other thing is that sometimes, and they may have already done it for you a prior off.
Dr Jameson: Needs to be filled out sometimes for the insurance different insurances are different. I can't remember whether medical does or doesn't, but
Dr Jameson: So anyway, there's sometimes some hoops. We have to jump through to get, get it going.
Joel Fike: But once we get it. They just ran my social security and got it.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: So like I said, like some state. I work you know I asked you if you were in Ohio. I see patients in Ohio and in Ohio. It's like you have to mother. May I, and it's a big
Dr Jameson: They're there and they have a very different approach. It's interesting. Different states have different
Joel Fike: What is their approaches a lot more control.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, there were much more limited they limit the total number of doses, a particular pharmacy can have in a month.
Dr Jameson: So they they just can't take any more patients because they don't, they won't be able to get any better for them. You know what I mean.
Dr Jameson: And then they're much more suspicious in general of. I just don't think that the education. I don't know. There may be the state laws are more restrictive or something. So it makes the pharmacist more nervous.
Dr Jameson: They're, they're very reluctant sometimes to
Joel Fike: Go here is considered a godsend everyone's like, oh yeah, you're on Suboxone yeah
Dr Jameson: Well, it is a gods, and I think it's kind of a miracle drug
Dr Jameson: To make you feel normal.
Dr Jameson: I think, yeah, anyway. So yeah, we're lucky for you, you're in California, so that that usually makes it less of a problem. You don't need as much issue. So do you
Dr Jameson: I don't want to go through things you already know, but
Dr Jameson: Tell me what you already understand about about how Suboxone works. It's not a path I
Joel Fike: Understand. So what about the
Joel Fike: Suboxone now axon, the naloxone is like a something so you can't use heroin answer box and at the same time, right.
Dr Jameson: You understand that more than a lot of people so so naloxone is not can
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Um, but it's not absorbed through the the mucosal lining, which is the way that you know the transmute Kozel absorption is the why you have to melt it in your mouth.
Dr Jameson: Not sound doesn't
Dr Jameson: Really get absorbed very well. That way, maybe a trace amount, but almost none, it's there for. If you tried. Somebody tried to melt it, and, or, you know, if it's a credit
Dr Jameson: You know, smoke it or do something
Dr Jameson: They're not supposed to be doing within the first place and then you're injecting yourself or inhaling, nor can we have fun with that. So that's what that's for the buprenorphine itself is a, it's a partial the terms, the medical terms or scientific terms are like antagonist.
Dr Jameson: Goodness.
Dr Jameson: So agonist is the opposite of antagonist. I think we know that word from
Dr Jameson: Our language.
Dr Jameson: You would say blocker for antagonist right and then agonist is sort of
Dr Jameson: It's a activator, basically what it does is it, it's been kind of it was manufactured and it's like a, it's a, what do you call it a
Dr Jameson: designer drug, I guess in a sense, but they they purposely to be able to block the receptors that cause you know like people don't get so tired and shot breathing and overdose and it blocks the
Dr Jameson: euphoria sort of receptors, but then it activates the physical receptors that have to do with these physical symptoms that people get
Joel Fike: Okay.
Dr Jameson: So that's so it's it's it's activating the ones that are missing.
Dr Jameson: The drug and causing that basically you know it's the opposite of all the all the effects of opiates opiates usually make people sleeping when you suddenly take them away.
Dr Jameson: Now you can't sleep usually makes people constipated. So then what do you suddenly take it away. Oh, now we have diarrhea. Because what your body has been doing is to like
Dr Jameson: gonna break. So it's pushing harder on the gas to try to overcome the break when you suddenly take the breakaway you're still pushing on the gas and everything goes haywire and it takes a while for things to kind of on
Dr Jameson: On set at that that new
Dr Jameson: Thermostat or whatever.
Dr Jameson: There are ways that it happens. But it's slow. So in the meantime you feel
Dr Jameson: horrendous. So that's kind of how people the dependence.
Dr Jameson: Is happening and what the, what the
Dr Jameson: Suboxone does is go back in there and kind of put a break on at least the physical
Dr Jameson: sweats and some of those other kinds of effects.
Dr Jameson: But it allows you to still think clearly and
Dr Jameson: You know, it doesn't make you holy. Most people do not feel any sort of euphoria, unless you're taking really high doses are doing it.
Dr Jameson: In ways. Yeah, as opposed to in the first place.
Um,
Dr Jameson: Any questions, and then it blocks those other ones, but it not only blocks it like pushes other drugs out other opiates.
Joel Fike: Yeah, like the way I've been how's it describes music like action or tighter than the actual hairline come back.
Dr Jameson: Right. So then if you
Joel Fike: Can't really use her porch.
Dr Jameson: Or a dentist gives you Viking because they pull your teeth, then doesn't understand how this stuff works. You know any other opiate that is introduced in the Suboxone is in place just has nowhere to go.
Joel Fike: So good.
Dr Jameson: You don't get much from it. And that goes for pain relief to, I think,
Dr Jameson: So that's kind of how it, it helps protect people from overdose and then also just cravings and things, hopefully, or art.
Dr Jameson: Minimize or absent, because the receptors are activated, you know, by the Suboxone instead of a different opiate
Joel Fike: I noticed. Yeah, it makes me not even saved a drink either when I'm on Suboxone like totally eliminates you
Dr Jameson: Yeah, some people say that I've had some people say it helps them not want to use math to but it's not necessarily like designed for that. But if if your brain receptors that have kind of made you
Dr Jameson: Crave alcohol overlap with with some of these other
Dr Jameson: Substances then yeah, it's just, it's just as
Dr Jameson: Just as well. There's a drug called now track stone.
Dr Jameson: Which is
Dr Jameson: Used for opiate
Dr Jameson: Dependence but also for alcohol and it's very closely related to the no locks own and now you know they're very similar Naltrexone in a lockdown. So anyway, it's
It's certainly
Dr Jameson: I mean, I'm glad to hear that that's that's a twofer.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, um,
Dr Jameson: Okay, so it sounds like you have a pretty and you understand that if you were to take it like before you got to the place where you felt sick. He could actually put you into that place.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, yeah. Okay, I know you're
Joel Fike: Never had to do that though.
Dr Jameson: You're, you're very lucky.
Dr Jameson: That's no fun. It's a base. It's we call it precipitated withdrawal, but I'm told that instead of, you know, I know it.
Dr Jameson: Happens somewhat gradually
Dr Jameson: Before it gets to its most hot worst point right over a couple days or something when you when you when you take Suboxone too soon, kind of like taking our can because it like throws everything out, it pushes everything out and then
Dr Jameson: Anyway, people say it's it's like on steroids. All of a sudden terrible withdrawal so
Dr Jameson: I think it's important that you understand that even though I'm prescribing it to you and you're already taking it and I am not.
Dr Jameson: giving you any permission to give your pills to somebody else. But I want you to know how that works. If you ever have a friend who's going into treatment or take it. You know, I just, I think it's important that you understand
And understand
Dr Jameson: Yeah, you have to be feeling sick before your first dose. Once you're on it, then that's, that's it. But it is a funny little
Dr Jameson: funky thing about
Dr Jameson: About the medication.
Dr Jameson: Do you, I guess you don't really have pain. You don't have any prior injuries or anything.
Joel Fike: I've got a lot of injuries, but they're not really in pain.
Joel Fike: I just learned to deal with them.
Dr Jameson: Okay, I'm broken bones and that's our suffer.
Joel Fike: Yeah, it's broken race and I have a separated shoulder, nothing really serious just
Okay.
Dr Jameson: I don't know if you've a lot of people come to opiates, as I, I know you know from prescription pain, pain pills, because they had pain. So we see a lot of patients who have
Dr Jameson: Become physically dependent and or addicted.
Dr Jameson: But also still have pain.
Dr Jameson: So,
Dr Jameson: One other
Dr Jameson: fortunate thing is the Suboxone does actually also
Dr Jameson: Get the receptors that deal with what we call analgesia or pain relief.
Dr Jameson: There are different ways you can take it like splitting it into smaller more frequent doses. Anyway, so if you're ever in a position where you say you need to go to the dentist or have
Dr Jameson: Teeth cold or you hurt yourself or something's going on. Reach out because we sometimes can just adjust the way that you take your Suboxone throughout the day and get better pain relief.
Dr Jameson: Increases the dose, a little bit too, but sometimes we don't actually, it's really interesting. So just
Dr Jameson: Be aware to be in touch. If you, if anything is upcoming so we can
Dr Jameson: We can or soon as something if you get hurt or something. So we can
Dr Jameson: Better utilize this medication for you to the best, you know, maximize its benefit.
Dr Jameson: Um, okay. So then
Dr Jameson: random questions, but how tall are you,
Joel Fike: I'm 68 so
Dr Jameson: And about how much do you weigh thank
Joel Fike: Right right 210 pounds.
Dr Jameson: Okay, and then the structure of our of our program, did anybody go over that much.
Joel Fike: I'm not really just, you guys have meetings and
Joel Fike: Not really, actually.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: That's usually the way it is. So it's I
Dr Jameson: figured maybe 15 something. Okay. Um, so yeah, so we have this initial meeting.
Dr Jameson: That you also
Dr Jameson: At some point, hopefully in the next couple weeks we'll have an initial evaluation with a counselor in one on one.
Dr Jameson: And then right away. We'll, we'll get you started in in the weekly group. So yes, we have weekly groups, which is similar, I think, to a lot of programs.
Dr Jameson: Combination. So I'm at the group. And there's a facilitator, who's usually drug and alcohol counselor and it's usually eight to 10 sometimes more sometimes less patience clients I guess selflessly
Dr Jameson: And we, you know, I check in with everyone who needs refills any issues in your case, if we adjust your dose, a little houses that better are you good, you know, and then
Dr Jameson: I listen in. But, I'm, you know, sending refills and checking whom
Dr Jameson: Do you and you know, that kind of stuff sort of simultaneously and we start out with pretty short.
Dr Jameson: Short prescription to sort of make sure that we keep you kind of want to, I don't know if my mother would say a short leash for a little while.
Dr Jameson: Just to reinforce, you know, coming to group every week meeting with the counselor, getting the drugs. I mean, the labs done, sort of, you know, making sure all the pieces are
Dr Jameson: falling into place. And as time goes on and things are sort of stabilizing and status quo for a while, then we will will
Dr Jameson: extend the duration of the prescription to say two weeks at a time and then eventually, eventually, after four or five months, something like that. People will earn the monthly support monthly prescription. Just like if you had a blood pressure medicine or something.
Joel Fike: That's just, that's it. Was it the other clinic going
Dr Jameson: Yeah yeah
Dr Jameson: I mean, it's pretty standard.
Dr Jameson: So we, we start with weekly group visits.
Dr Jameson: For some people, we just
Dr Jameson: Keep them forever because they need them or they find them really helpful or they provide you know as time goes on, you move from listening more to sort of talking or as as the sort of elder experienced role model for other people. So some people just continue to come every week because
Dr Jameson: They find that best for them.
Dr Jameson: We do allow eventually again like after months and months people to move to every other week on the on the
Dr Jameson: If, if it's necessary. Some people have worked, you know, complex and it gets tricky, but
Dr Jameson: That's the bare minimum is to two groups, a month.
Dr Jameson: We also require any Elise that initial counseling one on one in that evaluation, they typically
Dr Jameson: What's the word recommend. It's not hard word
Dr Jameson: Up here, kind of a course of one, one on one counseling for it and that depends. That's very variable. Some people have a lot of stuff. They need to deal with other people.
Dr Jameson: Not too much stuff so
Dr Jameson: It's maybe a series of a couple, you know,
Dr Jameson: once every two weeks visits for
Dr Jameson: Two months or something, just to kind of make sure we don't have any other
Dr Jameson: Things we want to try to help
Dr Jameson: Work through and the point of that is to try to minimize, you know, maximize your success basically like if there are outstanding.
Dr Jameson: This you know discord or
Dr Jameson: You've done the CVT yourself already, but for something that a lot of people haven't or they have sort of but haven't really gotten to the crux of certain issues.
Dr Jameson: That's an opportunity to kind of help.
Dr Jameson: Deal or lying issues that probably led to this in the first place because we want to we want to not just Band Aid it with Suboxone we want to help.
Dr Jameson: Really get, get it.
Dr Jameson: Through and through, if that makes sense.
Joel Fike: Yeah. Makes sense.
Dr Jameson: And then
Dr Jameson: You do the initial labs and then after I'm trying to think, what are the other. What are the other components we do a monthly drug screen and once the initial when you go to the lab, but after that most of our patients we we mail a
Dr Jameson: Little cup that has the
Dr Jameson: Built in, you probably don't have
Dr Jameson: seen those before we mail it to you directly
Dr Jameson: And then you sign into the virtual clinic with your unopened package and and open it and
Dr Jameson: The point of that is so make sure nobody's tampered with it and then
Dr Jameson: Every so often they stick a saliva test in there which are much more expensive. So we don't do those routinely but you just never know what's going to be in the box.
Dr Jameson: And then I don't think they make you like be on camera to put the urine in the cup, but they're there, you know, can hear you. In in the room and
Dr Jameson: And then
Dr Jameson: You know, they read it right off the
Joel Fike: Screen so you
Dr Jameson: Can do that at home.
Dr Jameson: Okay, Andy.
Dr Jameson: There are some survey, they're really into
Dr Jameson: Artificial Intelligence and tracking data and learning about factors that are, you know, encourage you know
Dr Jameson: Associated with good outcomes and factors associated with not so good out of them. So they ask
Dr Jameson: Patients to fill out a variety of surveys. I think every week. I know you did a bunch of them already for the initial but it's not as many is that every week. But there are a series of questions they asked you, I think it's like 15 minutes or something. A week that you fill out.
Dr Jameson: Just so we can be tracking various
Dr Jameson: Factors.
Dr Jameson: I think that's about it. I mean I it's
Dr Jameson: Also an hour a week for the
Dr Jameson: Groups and then
Dr Jameson: The counseling is
Dr Jameson: In addition to that,
Dr Jameson: At least at the beginning.
Dr Jameson: Last time we really just asked. Like, it's okay.
Dr Jameson: Just you and I. But if we were in group, I would have asked you to turn that
Dr Jameson: Background noise on
Dr Jameson: It gets to be distracting. Somebody else trying to talk
Dr Jameson: So we just ask people to be in a quiet.
Dr Jameson: private place we we do require earbuds or headphones for reasons, just so you can make sure you have those
Dr Jameson: When it comes to the group and we ask people not to smoke rebate because some people are trying to quit that
Dr Jameson: Just to not not to aggravate people
Dr Jameson: As far as your scheduled goes
Dr Jameson: You're not working at all at the moment.
Joel Fike: Right now. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So my my California groups are on Wednesday.
Dr Jameson: And your time options are.
Dr Jameson: 10:30am
Dr Jameson: Or three no noon. Sorry, I'm on the East Coast. So I said one time every time so 1030 or noon.
I think that
Dr Jameson: Just. Do you have a preference.
Joel Fike: I know right now the mornings probably better
Joel Fike: The 1030 yeah okay
Perfect.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so I'll pencil you in. So that means that your first group will be the day after tomorrow.
Dr Jameson: Right now, especially because we've had a lot of growth and they've hired a bunch of new people. So it's a little
Dr Jameson: I don't know, it can be a little slow in the virtual clinic. When people that everyone's checking in for a certain group. So we asked people to start checking in at least a half an hour. Prior to group.
Dr Jameson: You could if you got up in the morning. You want to just get it out of the way you could, you know, do that at 8am and then once you're done. They'll email you or text you or something. The code the meeting ID for the group that day.
Dr Jameson: You can, you know, do whatever you're doing. And then when it's 1030 sign into the to the meeting. So, can be done earlier but
Dr Jameson: You're not like, oh, I have group in five minutes. Let me go check in.
Dr Jameson: Because they can you know if you have to fill out a survey or
Dr Jameson: They have to, you know, schedule you for the counselor or something, then you end up late to group so
Dr Jameson: So I want. So think of it as 10am I guess at
Dr Jameson: That way you can
Dr Jameson: Right, so you got your 10
Dr Jameson: Six. Okay, so we're good. Alright, so I'm going to send the Suboxone AIDS, but I'm going to put two and a half a day.
Dr Jameson: And
Dr Jameson: 2.5 strips.
Dr Jameson: How you want to break those up is kind of up to you. It sounds like maybe you want to do what you're doing now and then just take an extra half in the in the evening.
Joel Fike: Yeah, that's what my plan was
Dr Jameson: Yeah, but, you know, the, the truth is that this medicine is a 24 hour very long acting medication and the fact you know you're saying at the beginning, it wasn't it
Dr Jameson: Sounds level long Catholic. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: So really you should be a radically should be able to take two and a half of them once a day and they should carry you right through. So
Dr Jameson: I think that there. It doesn't matter it's perfectly fine to do do it splitting it up like we talked about but
Dr Jameson: Be aware, there is a psychological component on some level to
Dr Jameson: Draw and I know that because I had a patient, tell me, well, I knew that. Anyway, but she was saying that she lost she
misplaced.
Dr Jameson: A few of her doses because she'd gone somewhere and she puts them in a wallet or something and then she forgot that she
Dr Jameson: Had them there. She just took she came home early from a trip. And anyway, forgot all about them. So for like 20 minutes she couldn't find any her medication and she me, she's like, I immediately.
Dr Jameson: You know, withdraw and then she finally found them and then she felt better right away and nothing had changed, like she had not missed it. Oh, she had. It was just the idea
Joel Fike: Yes, you.
Dr Jameson: might miss it. Oh. So there certainly is some psychological component. And that's fine. I mean, this whole a lot of this is a psychological issue so
Dr Jameson: The physical stuff is not being made up. You don't get me wrong, but a lot of it is so you can play with it. You could just take
Dr Jameson: It would be a probably more of a pain to cut one and a quarter and take that twice a day. So it's probably not worth it. But you could just take one in the morning and one and a half and the app, you know you can. You don't have to, like, make it even I guess is what I'm trying to say.
Dr Jameson: Fine, if you want to
Dr Jameson: But you don't have to. Okay, so I'm going to send this one.
Dr Jameson: For three days, just to get you through it will be a little bit us, you'll have more than enough to get to group and then at group will do the next chunk him. So we're lining it up with when you're coming to group.
Dr Jameson: OK. OK.
Dr Jameson: So actually, I'll do four days because otherwise it's an uneven number of strips.
Dr Jameson: 10
Dr Jameson: And it's a Walgreens on Sutton way. Yeah.
Yeah.
Joel Fike: I also found there's a pharmacy really close to me, but I'm not sure if they have them or not.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Well, we can start with this and I'm going to say no substitution, because they don't want you to have generic and then if we need to resend it or you know after this one you want to go to the place that's closer, you can confirm that
Dr Jameson: They have it. And, you know, between now and group. You can let us know when you
Joel Fike: Call them after this, and see if they have them.
Joel Fike: Okay, and what if they don't have them.
Dr Jameson: So then I would. Well, you could ask them, How long until you'll be able to fill it.
Dr Jameson: Or and and maybe call a couple other pharmacies and see if anybody has it today and your own. You only need 10 so
Dr Jameson: For now, and if there's somewhere else that does have a we can you call virtual clinic login there and let them know we need to switch the pharmacy because they don't have it in stock and
Joel Fike: Good. Okay. Thank you. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so
Dr Jameson: That will just send this is my work.
Dr Jameson: Do you have any other questions or
Joel Fike: No, I don't.
Dr Jameson: I didn't ask you, have you had any overdoses.
Joel Fike: No.
Dr Jameson: That's less common within
Joel Fike: With this. Well, I mean, I have a few years ago, I think I overdosed on fentanyl patches. That's, that's a
Joel Fike: Long time ago.
Dr Jameson: That they have to give you an arcane or
Joel Fike: Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: Was it in the ER or it was
Joel Fike: Just woke up.
Joel Fike: Actually happened in the car and my girlfriend drove me to the ER.
Dr Jameson: Okay, I'm okay with that was the only just that one.
Joel Fike: Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: Um, I usually offer as a routine thing to send a prescription for an hour can for for our patients if that would
Dr Jameson: Be of interest. I will happily do that.
Later.
Dr Jameson: I don't know if you have. I'm assuming you have friends.
Joel Fike: Yeah, unfortunately, yeah.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so sometimes
Joel Fike: They sometimes they're worried about you.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so sometimes it's good to have well always it's good to have that available even if not for use on yourself. But just to have it.
Yeah.
Joel Fike: You could save someone's life.
Dr Jameson: That's right. And then you that sometimes a teachable moment, as they say, you know, you know, there's the Suboxone stuff. I really works great for me.
Yeah.
Joel Fike: It was just talking to my friend about that yesterday.
Dr Jameson: Oh, yeah.
Joel Fike: So yeah, he's a guy wish I was good on that. I'm so sick of this
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: And then also just for our because I know you don't have too many right now. But when you have withdrawal. What are your. I mean, it's usually some variation on the similar thing. But what do you do you start actually vomiting. Eventually, or
Joel Fike: Most of the time I started getting really like restlessness and that's like the first start and then I'll start sweating a lot. And then from there, then I'll start feeling sick like nausea nausea and about bowel movement.
Joel Fike: Diarrhea yeah
Dr Jameson: And then I'm in trouble sleeping.
Joel Fike: And I will shake to
Dr Jameson: Do you get runny nose.
Joel Fike: Runny nose runny eyes. That's when I first can tell it starting is the first sentence for me is the runny eyes and yawning.
Dr Jameson: Uh huh. So weird.
Dr Jameson: And
Dr Jameson: Paid you get paid.
Joel Fike: No, not really.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Joel Fike: Sometimes I guess I feel like I'm achy
Joel Fike: But that's about it.
Joel Fike: Yeah, we get restless leg really bad.
Dr Jameson: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: OK. And then, so you've been in
Dr Jameson: Different or three different residential treatments.
Joel Fike: That was the third time and balance that
Dr Jameson: Their time. Okay. And do you usually relapse pretty much as soon as you get out every time, or have you
Joel Fike: So far,
Joel Fike: Really
Joel Fike: Not a big like for me. I don't think they're waste of time, but I think they're good to go for one time to get your eyes open to see like what addiction is. But once you know what's going on, it's up to you to change it out. Yeah.
Joel Fike: I mean I it's good to have for people if they wanted to detox just have some
Joel Fike: Options and some time to get sober.
Dr Jameson: Now, well, sometimes people are in an environment that really doesn't
Dr Jameson: Allow
Dr Jameson: You know sobriety. If you're like, surrounded by people that
Dr Jameson: Are actively using, for example.
Dr Jameson: So i mean it's it's it's a and, you know, because you've done your 12 steps for a while about the people, places, things and you know kind of boundary setting up those boundaries so
Dr Jameson: We talk about that stuff in our
Dr Jameson: I shouldn't. I don't, I don't, when I roll my I have this habit of doing that. And it does not mean, I think it's stupid. It's just a habit that I have. Sorry.
Dr Jameson: Okay, cut, stop it, we do talk about
Dr Jameson: Lots of different things. But it's, it's, you know, kind of like the general subject is relapse prevention.
Dr Jameson: Recovery skills is kind of the way that we we frame it and we talked about different things, different week. Sometimes we just talked about everybody's you know misery with this quarantine stuff. I mean, that's been a common conversation for the last few weeks, but
Joel Fike: common theme nationwide.
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, for sure, but sometimes you know there'll be a certain quote or will review the difference like
Dr Jameson: I don't know, different, different things, different weeks john is our is the counselor for this particular group. Yo, you'll be in he's super easy when I
Dr Jameson: And we will invite you to participate, but especially in the first few weeks it's okay if you really rather just lifting on you can say
Dr Jameson: Come back to me next week or you know whatever that's totally fine. We do end each group with a gratitude.
Dr Jameson: Everybody goes around something they're grateful for. So I think for that we probably asked you to
Joel Fike: Answer the question or I'm used to. I'm used to. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: So, till you probably
Dr Jameson: A lot less uncomfortable, then some people are not so sure has burst so
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: So that's kind of how that will work.
Dr Jameson: God I felt like there was something else. I was gonna say, and then
Dr Jameson: I sent an arcane I sent the four days worth of Suboxone for you. Make sure you've got your labs at least
Dr Jameson: Taking samples provided before ideally for for group. I think would be great. And then just going to know
Dr Jameson: whether they'll schedule your initial counseling counselor evaluation right away or maybe maybe on Wednesday when you check in for group, they call it a bio cycle social maybe you've heard this term before. Okay.
Dr Jameson: And we just say, I don't know. Seems seems interesting. Anyway, so that's what they refer to for that in case. So they'll schedule something hopefully in the next
Dr Jameson: I don't know how when the next available appointment is but hopefully they'll give you the time on the next couple this week sometime
Dr Jameson: And yeah, I think we're just about working with people to
Dr Jameson: See where the hang ups are what, what are the triggers. Why do you know what are you trying to escape. What are we, you know what, what's happening and see if we can help find other ways for for for us to cope with our with our discomfort. So which whichever type they happen to be
Dr Jameson: So that's kind of where we're where we try to focus. I think mainly
Dr Jameson: Okay so headphones on Wednesday and check in around, at least at 10am or sooner.
Dr Jameson: So you're ready to go. They send you an email. I don't think maybe not this week because you've already done so many surveys, but next week you'll probably see an email. I don't think you need to save that, because I don't know that they keep sending it every week.
Dr Jameson: You need to remember to try to fill your surveys out before before you're signing into group cuz I don't
Dr Jameson: Blame things. Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay, um,
Dr Jameson: Any last questions before we go.
Joel Fike: No, I think I got it. Okay, we got Wednesday at 10 1010 O'clock 1030
Joel Fike: Yes, and go to my screen.
Dr Jameson: Yes, your labs it and the group last an hour, I guess.
Joel Fike: Say that
Joel Fike: I did have one question I was just thinking if I do go back to work, or their evening groups at all.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I have on Tuesday evening. I have a couple. I try to reserve them for people that really have to use them because
Joel Fike: You're saying when I
Joel Fike: When I have to go back to
Dr Jameson: Yeah, for sure. And then, you know, sometimes Tuesday night doesn't work for some reason.
Dr Jameson: I don't have groups other nights. But there are other doctors who do so we can always transfer
Joel Fike: Do I do work.
Normally
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I will probably work during daylight hours so
Joel Fike: Like 530
Dr Jameson: Yeah, yeah. So I have a
Dr Jameson: It's really an 8pm group for me and a lot of Ohio, folks. But then I have a your time group which is more California folks.
Dr Jameson: It still kind of puts a close. I know, but since I'm on the East Coast, I can only I can only go so so late, but that's, I was saying there are other doctors like who live in California who are in the same time zone as you are, who have evening groups and other nights a week, so we can
Dr Jameson: If we have to transfer you, that's fine. I'm
Dr Jameson: Okay, so we'll see you on Wednesday. And you'll be touched sooner if you have any issues today. If you have any issues with the pharmacy or prescription
Joel Fike: Issues. Okay, now let you do
Dr Jameson: All right, good.
Dr Jameson: Night.
Joel Fike: You're welcome, and look
Dr Jameson: Forward to to working with you and
Dr Jameson: I'm normal. That's good.
Joel Fike: Yeah, sure.
Dr Jameson: Happy to be normal, right.
Joel Fike: Yeah, it's nice and it's the stressor leave
Dr Jameson: Yeah I that's what people say it's just so old to be constantly on this like
Dr Jameson: Search and counting hours and
Joel Fike: Go sucks.
Dr Jameson: You can just like have other things to you know
Dr Jameson: Worry about other more
Joel Fike: Just the
Dr Jameson: Stars and not stress.
Dr Jameson: Yeah and if your friend is like, you know what, I hope you did share and I maybe you want to see how it went for you before you
Dr Jameson: Recommend it but i mean you know we're we're definitely, I know there's a lot of well right now, especially a lot of programs have shot because of
Dr Jameson: Kobe. And they weren't necessarily set up for telemedicine and there's just so much probably more demand than then availability locally, sometimes in general. Anyway, so
Joel Fike: Well, this the way that you guys do it actually is going to be a lot more people seem like they're, they would rather do it like through the phone like this and having to have the stigma of going to the
Joel Fike: Office molester.
Dr Jameson: Well, anyway, yeah. I mean, I wish it weren't a stigma. But let's I know it is what it is. So,
Dr Jameson: Especially if you live in kind of a small town like who you're going to see there and
Dr Jameson: Then if you are trying to hold down a job getting out every week or sometimes the programs want people, they're like three days a week. Some of them are very
Dr Jameson: Involved and you can't really do that. And the whole point of Suboxone as opposed to be that it's a regular prescription that you get from your regular primary care. It's just that most people's primary cares don't happen to have gone through the training. So then
Dr Jameson: Anyway, the whole point is to be able to do this without having to say go to a methadone clinic every morning and
Dr Jameson: You know, be a little bit more conducive to just regular, normal life and you're not congregating with people's have one person is, you know, not in the right mindset. They can that can be contagious. Right.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, this way, you're kind of, you know, in your own space there, you're less risk for any
Dr Jameson: Parking lot funny business right
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: So, and then some people like I was saying, you know, we have a lot of patients with social anxiety. So there are people who like really wouldn't go and sit in a room with a bunch of people. They didn't know so i think it's it's it fits a lot of
Dr Jameson: It takes a lot of boxes in that sense, I think. Yeah.
Joel Fike: Yeah, people get really far out there, some terms.
Dr Jameson: Yes, for sure. All right.
Dr Jameson: Well, I guess I was nice to meet you. And I look forward to lots of success going forward. Okay.
Joel Fike: Not to have a good day.
Dr Jameson: You too. All
Joel Fike: Right.
Dr Jameson: You gotta get out just kind of
Joel Fike: Touch your screen, it's
Dr Jameson: Time to leave you got it sometimes by
Dr Jameson: Okay, this is john Fike here for his initial history, physical, I think we sort of covered most of the bases.
Dr Jameson: We can incorporate his initial
Dr Jameson: Expert
Dr Jameson: survey questions. And here he is unable to stop using when he wants to feels bad or guilty as spouse or parents complaining reject has neglected family because of drug use and experiences withdrawal symptoms. He's
Dr Jameson: Answering no to the other questions, although he ended up in jail. So I guess.
Dr Jameson: He's not linking that as being a causal factor. I wonder
Dr Jameson: And
Dr Jameson: So that will help an API. And then he's been in three different residential treatment and the one overdose.
Dr Jameson: I filled in medical history, his mental status and physical or normal. Oh, Ed severe
Dr Jameson: I ran a curious report reviewed the structure of our program review the mechanism of action of Suboxone he has been using it without side effects previously.
Dr Jameson: does seem that his dose, maybe slightly sub
Dr Jameson: Optimal so I'm going to increase to two and a half films per day. I sent a four day supply number 10 refills we've chosen the 10:30am Wednesday group, and he will begin that in two days. We've rude. The
Dr Jameson: Need for headphones and
Dr Jameson: No smoking during group request.
Dr Jameson: And
Dr Jameson: That is, and for him.
Dr Jameson: Hello.
Modoc County: I have to
Dr Jameson: Say my. Good morning. How are you guys
Modoc County: Fine, thank you for meeting us today we I was having trouble with the meeting ID numbers.
Dr Jameson: Oh, well that's sorry about that. I'm glad we figured it out. So I know you must eat a refill.
Modoc County: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: How's it. It's been going are you taking that you're taking the two a day. Right.
Modoc County: Now this is the first song for me.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so are you taking a half or how, what are you doing
Modoc County: Like one for one day every day.
Dr Jameson: Do you take it all at once, or do you split it.
Modoc County: Oh, I started that
Modoc County: Is stripper in workplaces and
Dr Jameson: They give you the eights.
Modoc County: Know the twos.
Oh,
Modoc County: They're extremely they put me out. They made me go to sleep.
Okay.
Modoc County: So,
Dr Jameson: You know that's not surprising because you were you you know you don't have a long history of lots of tolerance to opiates for
Modoc County: The first time.
Modoc County: And everything I was
Modoc County: Know I got down
Modoc County: For
Modoc County: Four times
Dr Jameson: So you take a quarter four times a day.
Modoc County: Yeah, right.
Dr Jameson: Okay. And if you take the whole half then you feel. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: On well
Dr Jameson: Okay, it doesn't come any smaller. I wish we could give you a smaller one, but
Modoc County: I mean it works that way.
Dr Jameson: Okay. And then, um, have you so it has caused some side effects in the najah did you actually vomit.
Modoc County: No, I didn't.
Dr Jameson: But you felt nauseous and then
Dr Jameson: Some, some sedation and or, I guess, euphoria.
Modoc County: My new the new ones yet because we have a hell of a
Modoc County: Deal. I'm working to get her daughter back so I
Modoc County: Started the new just I got my neck.
Modoc County: But I have the extra Sony Angeles anyway.
Dr Jameson: Oh, so you still have medicine.
Modoc County: Yeah, so
Okay.
Dr Jameson: You're taking last and okay
Dr Jameson: What are you so what do you think you you don't want to have it in your system if they're doing dress testing. Is that what it is.
Modoc County: No, I, I will see here
Modoc County: Everything is last week Monday.
Dr Jameson: Why is that, sorry. I'm just curious, it's not. You're not. It's okay.
Modoc County: Just because I
Modoc County: I got scared. I don't like
Modoc County: I don't like
Modoc County: Okay, I don't, I don't like the high i don't i don't like that feeling.
Dr Jameson: Know, sure. So even when you were taking the quarter. What day was it making you feel high
Modoc County: Yeah, and I don't like it.
Modoc County: Made me go sleep all day long.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, no, I don't.
Modoc County: Like the feeling
Dr Jameson: Okay, so. Okay. So, I mean, there's two options. One is to drop it. Well, how have you been feeling in the last so you stop taking it a week ago.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, and how
Dr Jameson: Have you been obviously I assume all those symptoms have gone away.
Modoc County: Yeah, I got, I started taking like you prescribed and I just couldn't do it.
Dr Jameson: I know and I'm glad you shouldn't. You did the right thing.
Modoc County: I tried just one, four times a day.
Modoc County: I just don't like that feeling.
Modoc County: I tried it for three or four days.
Modoc County: Okay.
Dr Jameson: There's a couple options.
Dr Jameson: So we could drop it even more like just taking a quarter once a day or twice a day, or we could stop Suboxone all together and try. There's a I think I meant that I mentioned last time, the Murtaza pain.
Dr Jameson: As other
Dr Jameson: Yeah, there's other options. I mean, we, it doesn't have to be this one if and that's not even a controlled substance. So if you're at this. Is there any concerns with the custody of testing you know testing for
Modoc County: Something. Oh, it's just
Modoc County: Like that feeling.
Dr Jameson: Uh huh. Good. And I don't want to be giving you something that's making you feel I either honestly
Dr Jameson: I'm so
Modoc County: Zombie down
Modoc County: Yeah, it was crazy.
Dr Jameson: Did you try taking just a quarter once or twice a day, or you didn't get that low
Modoc County: Yeah, no, I just stopped taking it. Okay.
Modoc County: I just
Dr Jameson: So I think I'm hearing that you would rather not take it at all. Is that, is that what you're saying.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, let's try that.
Dr Jameson: Different stuff, I have to tell you, I'll be honest, I've used this medication for completely unrelated purposes it's it's helps people fall asleep at night.
Dr Jameson: And it's actually technically an antidepressant like the class of medication, but somehow in some study was observed that it seems to decrease
Dr Jameson: quite substantially. The amount of methamphetamine positive tests that they found in this group of people
Dr Jameson: So, how it works, or why it works. I don't think I certainly don't understand. I don't know if anybody else has kind of figured that out yet either. It's kind of like when we used Wellbutrin which is a an antidepressant and notice that people were cutting back or quitting smoking.
Dr Jameson: Interesting. So it's kind of was just this observed thing. I have not used it for this reason before so you will be my first test.
Dr Jameson: But the study was quite quite encouraging.
Dr Jameson: Potentially. Yeah, that's a different subject which I'd be happy to talk to you about, but
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I would love for that. So unfortunately Wellbutrin is not the same as this. This is a different medication, but
Dr Jameson: I was using that as kind of a
Example, yeah.
Dr Jameson: So this is a medication that does make people sleepy. So we give it to you, we tell you to take it at bedtime.
Dr Jameson: So if you have trouble sleeping, it's an extra bonus that it helps you sleep, but it's not a
Dr Jameson: It's not a sedative, it's not a
Dr Jameson: It's not a controlled substance. It's not a benzo it's not habit forming. It's not. It's so it's it's
Dr Jameson: You know, otherwise it's it's pretty safe. It's like I said, it's not a controlled substance, it wouldn't test on any art shouldn't unless it has a cross reaction, but it's it's not a controlled substance so kind of the way that
Dr Jameson: Anti histamines like Benadryl make you sleepy. It's the same kind of thing. It's sort of a side effect that it makes you sleepy. That's not the reason we're giving it to you, but it will make you sleepy. So
Dr Jameson: Not to the point that someone couldn't wake you up, but you'll want to take it when you're pretty much ready for bed anyway.
Dr Jameson: I'm
Modoc County: Sorry.
Modoc County: I couldn't function enough
Dr Jameson: No, no, it will make you sleepy.
Dr Jameson: All the next day. It's more like, like I said, we use it as a sleeping medicine for people and it makes you sleepy for a few hours and then by the morning, you should be
Dr Jameson: Hopefully,
Dr Jameson: And and we sometimes have to adjust the medication or the time you're taking it if you still feel like you're groggy in the morning, then we will we will need to
Dr Jameson: Adjust it sometimes over time the sudden, you know, it may not be as the dating app. If you take it for months and months, but your body, you may get a little tolerance to that. So we'll have to see, but it will be interesting to see if it, if it seems to help you feel less
Dr Jameson: Drawn to to think about using math. So with that, that's the idea is, it seems to decrease that desire. Okay.
Dr Jameson: And I'll have to look it up. We can talk about adding Wellbutrin at some point to add. So to make sure there isn't an interaction. I have to check that I haven't
Modoc County: I've tried everything. I mean,
Modoc County: Yeah, like I've gone to jail for a month, two months at a time and
Modoc County: And that's
Modoc County: A nice looking for two months.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Modoc County: Workstation and a half probably
Hmm.
Dr Jameson: So the name of this medication is
Dr Jameson: Or REM Iran is the brand name.
Dr Jameson: Just FYI. So I'm going to have you start the dose. I have to, I have to remind myself what the dose in this in this trial was. But either way, I want you to start at a lower dose to start because I want to make sure there aren't any.
Dr Jameson: You know, it's not too sedating for you or that you know that there aren't any other
Dr Jameson: Issues.
Dr Jameson: As far as side effects to watch for. Obviously, I already told you is going to make you sleepy, and that's a side effect, but we can't do anything about that. So you just take it at that time and then
Dr Jameson: It has been
Dr Jameson: It can cause increased appetite. I think we also use it for that purpose and like old people who won't eat so you're going to have to watch for that.
Dr Jameson: And then, constipation, dry mouth.
Dr Jameson: We are dreams.
Dr Jameson: Any
Dr Jameson: Usually, the thing is, any medication can cause any number of things. Most of them are very rare, but those are the kind of more common ones. So you can monitor for that if there's anything that's bothering you. That seems new since you've started it, then let me know we'll, we'll have to
Dr Jameson: You know, talk about it and see what I'm going to do is have you start on the 50 milligram, which is
Dr Jameson: A lower dose anyway. And then for the first few days anyway. Break them in half, even
Dr Jameson: So that you can have a chance to see if it's something bothering you, at least it's pretty mild because it's a low dose. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Yeah.
Modoc County: Hi. Hello. So
Modoc County: With this program and stuff.
Modoc County: That we are only like doing like the Suboxone and stuff is we have like our doctors here in this small county to do like the other medications.
Dr Jameson: Oh, okay.
Modoc County: Because this this building is like mental health. So we already told my doctor who does like mccaskey or welding training, things like that to me better managed to do them.
Modoc County: Okay, right.
Dr Jameson: Okay, I'm okay, that's fine. So, um, then
Dr Jameson: You guys do groups and all that stuff to
Modoc County: Get well we do therapy here not Rousseff is we're just barely started groups now because of the coven it
Dr Jameson: Right, okay so
Dr Jameson: Okay, that's fine. Um, so then we maybe can
Dr Jameson: Pass you back to the local ducks there. If the Suboxone hasn't been
Dr Jameson: A great fit for you.
Dr Jameson: Okay. I mean, sometimes we have people and I don't know because this is, I know this was kind of the first
Dr Jameson: What's the word, I don't know, try this kinda
Modoc County: Yeah.
This kind of
Dr Jameson: setup with the local group.
Dr Jameson: Of folks, then I'll tell them medicine from the same room but um
Dr Jameson: I mean, sometimes we have patients who get their medications somewhere else and then still come to us for groups and individual counseling. I guess it doesn't sound even in this unique situation that that may even be necessary. So we should probably talk to the
Dr Jameson: I don't know if you're working with Elena or ed or who you've been working with about setting this all up in the first place.
Dr Jameson: But I can let them.
Dr Jameson: I have
Modoc County: Mr john champion.
Dr Jameson: Oh, that's the CEO. Okay, we can, I guess, depending on whether you guys are going to get groups going there. And I guess that's your intention eventually anyway.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, yeah. So then
Dr Jameson: I don't, I guess we it's he has individual counseling there so we don't need to do that. So really it's a question of whether or not, then there is a need for the group.
Dr Jameson: Counseling like recovery skills relapse prevention type stuff. And I know you have a couple other patients, although I haven't seen them.
Modoc County: No doctor goes out and does
Dr Jameson: Okay, so then in May, I guess if if that's a sheet right
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Yes. I haven't met
Dr Jameson: Okay. I think so. But I can
Dr Jameson: Maybe she is running if she has kind of them. I know it's so small number, but the majority of the patients. Maybe she can run the group because I know I didn't have
Dr Jameson: Availability on the day that you were needing it anyway. So I'll, I'll kind of send an email back to to john that for you. Anyway, we were going to probably pass on the medication piece and then still to be returned to be determined if we're going to continue with a group for you guys.
Dr Jameson: Okay, that's
Modoc County: That's good. I'm just, I'm just doing what they're telling you to do because we're only supposed to be regarding those spots on the
Dr Jameson: Other it's a it's a special. It's a special license that you have to have to prescribe it and you know otherwise. But you're right. I wasn't really thinking about
Dr Jameson: Okay. So that would be my recommendation. I don't know if they
Modoc County: Are they like it, they will put it like in your notes if that is your recommendation.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, for sure. And then
Dr Jameson: I'll look up the dose that was used in that trial to so that we, we get
Dr Jameson: In there once I find it.
Dr Jameson: I think it was 30 but I have to triple check on that. So, but either way I
Dr Jameson: I'm sure your doctors are perfectly capable. I'm sure they do the same thing where you start kind of low and then move it up to the to the goal, assuming things are going fine so
Dr Jameson: Okay. And then, yeah, I mean the only other which i don't i. It sounds like that would be
Dr Jameson: Choice number to Plan B would be to go back to the box on but just do the quarters like once a day or twice a day or something only enough to below that feeling high sort of threshold. If we can get you that low but you know if it's that difficult to tolerate even this
Dr Jameson: Is a low, actually, then I think because then you'll end up having to wean off that which will be very difficult at such a low dose to start with. So it may be, it's best just to try the other other brewers
Modoc County: Yeah. Well, yeah.
Modoc County: Thank you though.
Dr Jameson: Oh, you're welcome.
I hope everything
Modoc County: I don't do
Modoc County: I don't do locally. I guess myself because I'm like
Dr Jameson: Yeah, you're the receptor mix that that
Modoc County: My, my mind is my brain doesn't like that.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so
Dr Jameson: You know, that's why.
Modoc County: It is so
Modoc County: Nice that
Modoc County: Being in a wheelchair for six months and I'm walking
Modoc County: Yes, I think now that I'm over that.
Well,
Modoc County: My, my mind is not want to lay down, it makes
Modoc County: It makes you feel really
Dr Jameson: Anxious. Probably, yeah.
Modoc County: Just well
Modoc County: I just, I don't, I don't like that.
Dr Jameson: Uncomfortable. Yeah, I know, and I don't, I don't really love it.
Modoc County: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: I don't love the idea of
Dr Jameson: Yeah I don't love the idea of adding something that makes you feel really so that's just as well. Yeah. Okay. Well, I hope everything works out with your
Dr Jameson: Daughter daughter, yes.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. And in general, and yeah, it was nice. IT WAS NICE CHATTING WITH YOU.
Modoc County: Yeah, thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Modoc County: Sorry best candy for that. That's
Dr Jameson: That's not a bad thing. It's not a bad thing. It's, you know, like you said, everyone is different and
Dr Jameson: Listen, whatever works best for you is, what was the right thing to do so.
Modoc County: Yeah, I appreciate it.
Dr Jameson: Oh, you're welcome.
Dr Jameson: No problem. Alright, and I'll follow up with john on on our end about group or not group or what's gonna happen.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: You're welcome. Nice to meet you as well.
Dr Jameson: Bye bye.
Dr Jameson: There you are. Sometimes the sound takes a minute and it said it was still connecting but I can hear you. Can you hear me.
Adam Krug: I can hear you. Thank you.
Dr Jameson: Adam Right.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: Oh, your sound is like very rich your voice comes across like super like a radio announcer or something.
Dr Jameson: My name is Dr. Jamison
Dr Jameson: If you wouldn't mind confirming your last name and also birth date.
Adam Krug: Bundle last name is Kay, or Yuji birth date is June 29 1999 and
Dr Jameson: Are you in Ohio.
Adam Krug: I am in California.
Dr Jameson: Okay, I thought I think I had one other person who was in who didn't show up for their appointment and that's why I had some Ohio and some. Oh, and some California, it doesn't, that's fine. Okay, so
Dr Jameson: The appointment today is mainly focused on kind of a medical background just kind of getting your, your medical information just so we're
Dr Jameson: fully informed and then deciding if Suboxone is the right drug free medication if it's a good option and how it works. And then, you know, getting started, if that's the case.
Dr Jameson: So,
Dr Jameson: Have you been in treatment before, is this your first
Adam Krug: First, the first time anything of this type, and I was recommended by a former provider actually
Adam Krug: Prefer nor feeling for
Adam Krug: What's, what's only
Adam Krug: A queue for
Adam Krug: Shoulder
Adam Krug: Slash back pain.
Dr Jameson: Having pain. Okay.
Dr Jameson: What did you injure yourself.
Adam Krug: As a matter of fact embarrassingly yes but I work at the puter a lot
Adam Krug: And I neglected my my bag and
Adam Krug: Then I also got
Adam Krug: kicked in the back by
Nice.
Adam Krug: That wasn't great. And then I'll hear like
Adam Krug: Take care of my bag.
Dr Jameson: So kind of a combination of things.
Dr Jameson: Okay. So how long has that been an issue.
Adam Krug: Oh,
Adam Krug: Good question. I think it
Adam Krug: I mean, like, weeks, months, years, it's very bad specific
Adam Krug: Oh, so like one to two months ago.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: That was okay.
Dr Jameson: So you're seeing a local
Dr Jameson: Doctor clinician of some sort, and they were suggesting that you use the buprenorphine to help with pain. Is that what you were saying I
Adam Krug: In pain management or also a co op
Adam Krug: Yes, it
Dr Jameson: Yeah, it's Luck It's fortunate that it can help with both because it. Obviously, it helps with opioid that's it helps with
Dr Jameson: physical dependence and all that, but it also does have some pain. Pain relief. Now it sounds like your
Dr Jameson: Issue is something that will heal it. I mean, eventually it's going to get better anyway. Fortunately, because it doesn't sound like it was some kind of, you know, operation with plates and all this stuff that can kind of bother people forever so
Dr Jameson: Sounds like stretching and care being careful with keeping your computer apply. So you're not hunched over, it's very common. It's a very common problem.
Dr Jameson: For unfortunately this teenage I have. I have. You can't see, but I have my computer up on a stand so that I'm looking up instead of and I have my keep my
Dr Jameson: Keyboard like in my lap. So I can not have my arms. You know, you can you can definitely put yourself into contortions very easily on a computer all day. I guess I been there. Okay, so
Dr Jameson: Then let's kind of back up for a few seconds. Let me ask you some kind of basic things like are you allergic to any medication.
Dr Jameson: No. Okay. And are you prescribed anything
Adam Krug: Yes.
Adam Krug: But I've been
Adam Krug: Mostly taking the forget lattice prescribing these
Adam Krug: To help ease or alleviate symptoms of
Adam Krug: opioid withdrawal.
Dr Jameson: Okay, I think I might not. Can you say that again. Are you saying you're using the medicine more for not for pain anymore for for physical withdrawal that what you mean.
Adam Krug: Well, it's both.
Adam Krug: I though one point was
Adam Krug: Using the opioid am analog, Sir. Sir, gather just for pain, but then when I would stop using
Adam Krug: An analog of Tramadol and and i will obviously experience withdrawal and then
Yeah.
Adam Krug: The, the preamble, in order to alleviate the symptoms of of pain and withdrawal.
Dr Jameson: Are you taking that now the Lyrica
Adam Krug: I haven't taken it today because I found it. Like it doesn't
Adam Krug: It was like not being very helpful and actually causing constipation, because I was also taking non steroidal anti inflammatories, so I stopped taking the gamble.
Dr Jameson: Okay. Just today, like do you feel like you're not going to take it at all anymore or that's just a today. You're not taking it.
Adam Krug: So far just today. I'm taking but I'm I like to not taking any more, but I
Dr Jameson: Okay, but you had been so I'm just trying to update your chart with like what your medications are so I think
Dr Jameson: I'm gonna, I think I'll put it in there. And then if we end up, you don't end up going if you stay off of it. We can always just okay can discontinue But theoretically, that was what, one of the things your doctor had wanted you to take right
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Okay. Is it. Do you know the dose.
Adam Krug: Yes, hundred milligrams three times day. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So I'll just put it in here. And then if you don't take it, then you can take it up. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Three times a day. And then what else are you prescribed
Adam Krug: Also prescribed
Adam Krug: Sin City or Dexter amphetamine Sophie.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you're on.
Dr Jameson: Like Adderall.
Adam Krug: Similar yeah
Dr Jameson: Okay. Say it. One was the first word he said
Adam Krug: Since and said he is a brand name have
Dr Jameson: Never heard of that one is that start with the
Adam Krug: Yeah, z and see the eye.
Dr Jameson: Out here. I found it, then any
Dr Jameson: You know the dose on that.
Adam Krug: Okay, yeah. So recently I got a generic of just jokes that I mean Solvay. The last time I did up, which would be
Adam Krug: 20 milligrams twice a day and then designs it less time citizens that is does just actually 15 milligrams three times a day. If I pick up that brand name.
Dr Jameson: So what determines whether you get what determines whether you get the brand name or the generic
Adam Krug: If I am living in an area that the pharmacy says we are all out of the brand name.
Dr Jameson: I see. So sometimes they don't have it.
Dr Jameson: Yes. Okay.
Dr Jameson: All right. But ideally Do you prefer them ready or it doesn't make a difference.
Adam Krug: Ideally, yes, it's preferred although one just like the preamble and I'm happy to cease usage if needed.
Adam Krug: Okay, like to eventually
Dr Jameson: Yeah, and that's being here. What are you doing,
Dr Jameson: What are they using that for
Adam Krug: Typically DD and attentive.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, okay. And you said it was 15 three times a day.
Adam Krug: Yes. Okay.
Dr Jameson: There's my add okay
Dr Jameson: Um, and then anything else that you're prescribed
A
Adam Krug: Not well actually recently, like for example it. I don't know if this makes a difference. But I was given lidocaine patches.
Adam Krug: I was given a temporary supply a while back of cyclo Ben Supreme
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you had the the muscle relaxant, too.
Adam Krug: And yeah 30 days flyer, a while ago of interchange
Adam Krug: Both of those. I haven't used the late
Adam Krug: I've just mostly been using
Adam Krug: A non steroidal anti inflammatory naproxen hand.
Adam Krug: I ceased usage. Lastly, a recent Neil uptight closed for that job because he was causing dermatitis mildly.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you have approximately 500 words.
Adam Krug: Yes. Okay.
Dr Jameson: You take that every 12 hours.
Adam Krug: Oh, yes. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So you're not going to do the Voltaire and gel anymore because that makes you have a rash and then the light is a lot of cane patch hobbling
Adam Krug: very mildly.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Adam Krug: It's not really too noticeable, if that makes sense.
Dr Jameson: Uh huh. I need to take it off after 12 hours right
Adam Krug: Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: All right, and that's where you're putting that somewhere up on here.
Adam Krug: Yeah, like right here or or here say maybe I'm like
Adam Krug: Yeah, we're running
Dr Jameson: And then have you done like massage or stretching or physical therapy or any of that stuff.
Adam Krug: I haven't done physical therapy because the coronavirus made that a little tricky, but stretching
Adam Krug: And stretching and like why lying on my back with my feet up on
Adam Krug: A chair.
Dr Jameson: Does your low back, Father, you are. It's mostly in the upper back.
Adam Krug: You ever been asleep. It's not really my lower back.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I wonder if getting like a foam roller or like a tennis ball and kind of laying on that to kind of press on the knots. I'm sure there are not
Dr Jameson: Might be
Adam Krug: What's a foam roller certain
Dr Jameson: Know it's a fine.
Dr Jameson: Well they sell them on Amazon. I think if you just typed in foam roller, but it's basically a cylinder and they have different like squishy. Mrs. And then they have them that have these little like knobs sticking out like there and increasingly torturous
Dr Jameson: But basically you use it to kind of roll you can roll anybody part like if your hamstrings are tight or your quads are time and you have to get on the floor and kind of like move yourself around, but you can use it, it's
Dr Jameson: Good for like the the low back in the upper back, but at a certain point up in the neck there, you know, you kind of need to be like rolling this way and you can't really use that thing to roll yourself over it, but
Dr Jameson: It still might be good to use for your upper back, and especially if you kind of hug yourself so your arm like those muscles that are right along the inside of your shoulder blades that are, I'm guessing part of the problem.
Dr Jameson: You know, you can kind of really or you can lean up against the door like the corner of a door jamb and just kind of get the edge there to dig into things that are sore, kind of like giving yourself a massage
Adam Krug: If you can find us at CVS say
Dr Jameson: You'll find at CVS Walmart might have it.
Dr Jameson: There shouldn't be very expensive. I mean, it should be inexpensive, they shouldn't be charging you too much. And some of them literally are made out of foam. Some of them are more like
Dr Jameson: You know what I have, let me go get one.
Dr Jameson: Second,
Dr Jameson: Myself.
Adam Krug: I see there's a bit of a variety
Dr Jameson: Oh yeah, well, my husband has
Dr Jameson: Little things bothering him and he's a he's a gadget guy, so he has purchased all sorts of this is one, it's kind of, if you can see that very well. It's kind of
Dr Jameson: You know, it's mostly smooth and it's just it's hollow and you can roll over whatever by part you want this one is me and I won't use it because it hurts me but this one has like knobs sticking
Dr Jameson: But you can see how that would push into a muscle, not
Dr Jameson: You can really get in there and kind of dig at it. And a lot of times if you keep keep doing that for a while, they, they kind of let themselves they release.
Dr Jameson: So anyway, and then
Dr Jameson: This is just one example. He's got all these different sizes and shapes but there's different balls that people
Dr Jameson: You know you like put it under word hurts and like either under chair on the floor, you kind of like, you know, roll around in there and try to sort of, wait, like I said, it's kind of a way of giving yourself a massage
Adam Krug: It's a foam roller different the tennis ball in terms of play.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, cuz the tennis ball is going to be very localized to that one.
Dr Jameson: One. Not like sometimes people's backs. Get out of alignment. So when you roll that like up and down your spine. Sometimes you'll feel things like cracking a little bit like as you kind of
Dr Jameson: Push things back into place. But if you could start with a tennis ball, you probably have one already. That's probably easier.
Adam Krug: Somewhere. Yeah, yeah.
Dr Jameson: So I would, I would definitely because this sounds like to me more what we call a soft tissue, meaning it's not a bone. It's the muscles and tendons and those kinds of things should be
Dr Jameson: fixable or managed anyway with some of these kinds of techniques and you know I know it's a shame. It's hard to get anything right now with coronavirus but
Dr Jameson: Yeah, massage or or therapy that kind of stuff should help that along
Adam Krug: Thank you so
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so that would be, I would definitely recommend trying that kind of stuff. And if you sit and watch TV. Anyway, or something, you know, you could just
Dr Jameson: Get in the habit of laying on the floor, but one of these things under you and kind of rolling around and sitting, usually if you just find the spot and then like just leave it, let it push for a few minutes. A lot. Usually, kind of, like, kind of, let's go after year.
Dr Jameson: Like lean on it for a minute.
Dr Jameson: Anyway,
Adam Krug: That makes. Oh, sorry. Oh.
Dr Jameson: No. No, go ahead.
Adam Krug: I was gonna say that. That makes sense. And I
Adam Krug: Do believe it is like
Adam Krug: At least maybe muscle related I heard first from an urgent care in a bit ago that like it might be Unitas or something.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I mean tendinitis is generally like a more in a joint that's like mobile where you have a repeated movement of muscles which are connected to attendance rubbing inside their little compartment and they get inflamed. That's usually an overused. I mean,
Dr Jameson: This to me sounds like it doesn't matter. I mean, we do the same sorts of things. Anyways,
Dr Jameson: But, but, this sounds more like muscle knots and and like the the gristle of your tissues may be getting kind of
Dr Jameson: Rough and bunched up a little bit in there from being kind of pulled on and strain for a long time. And that's where the massage and rolling and stretching and all that stuff can kind of help. We set where things were supposed to be.
Dr Jameson: So anyway, so that I would recommend anyway. But as far as we were prescribed opiates or
Adam Krug: I'm not not currently or recently a while. Quite a while ago.
Adam Krug: Okay, thank
Dr Jameson: You been, what have you been taking using lately.
Adam Krug: Lately as and how recently.
Dr Jameson: Well, what are you taking now.
Adam Krug: Currently,
Adam Krug: Today,
Adam Krug: I took nothing
Adam Krug: But with the last, you know, you're
Adam Krug: On 32
Adam Krug: I was
Adam Krug: tapering off of the
Adam Krug: Van Til no dismantle tremble with the occasion.
Adam Krug: I had listed
Dr Jameson: Okay, so
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you were using fentanyl. How are you taking that
Adam Krug: I'm sublingual year Orly okay
Dr Jameson: And it was the what form. Was it like a
Dr Jameson: I
Adam Krug: Have a tincture. It wasn't patches. I created a tincture out of the powder. So it was like a solution.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you were buying it on the street and then creating a
Adam Krug: Other on the on the Internet.
Dr Jameson: Solution. Okay, well without a prescription that sorry that that's a Fair. Fair enough. Okay, I'm okay. So, how
Dr Jameson: Let's see. Have you had any other medical so you have the kind of this neck, shoulder
Dr Jameson: Something, whatever it is, muscle spasm or tendonitis. Any other medical you have 80 HD
Adam Krug: Right. Yes. Add
Dr Jameson: Add okay and then any other medical diagnoses that people have assigned you
Adam Krug: Anxiety.
Adam Krug: Is and it's like if you if you'd like to really get into it, I guess. You can also say, Well, I've been diagnosed with insomnia.
Adam Krug: But those are all you know, normal things to some extent.
Adam Krug: And other I yeah though those are like the
Adam Krug: Things that mainly
Dr Jameson: Comes ok and then any operations ever
Adam Krug: Um, you know, the only thing is, like, I think what I was very young, three or four in like an old on toma tumor do my teeth took out a bunch of baby teeth.
Dr Jameson: Oral Surgery as a little kid.
Dr Jameson: And that's it. Nothing. You have your appendix, and all that stuff.
Dr Jameson: Yes. Okay, cool. All right, and
Dr Jameson: Let's see. Are you in school or working or what's your
Adam Krug: Just currently in school, college,
Dr Jameson: College soon okay because if
Dr Jameson: From home I guess now to or were you online anyway.
Adam Krug: Well, I was online recently, but it's in person. Normally, right.
Dr Jameson: Because of the corona. Yeah. Where do you go to school.
Adam Krug: Oakland at CCA for animation speaking open campus.
Dr Jameson: So you're studying animation.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, okay. I was gonna ask that question next. So you beat me.
Dr Jameson: And then so you are. You're a junior. Where are you
Yes.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: And then you show your living at home now with parents or where are you
Adam Krug: Oh, I'm living in an air being abused. My father Oakland currently
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Or your parents separated or divorced, then
Adam Krug: Kind of the first. Well, it's also on
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: All right. Do you
Dr Jameson: Are you in touch with your mom too or
Dr Jameson: Yes okay where does she live
Adam Krug: Currently in Scottsdale, Arizona.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so she's not in the area. I see. Is that where you're from, or she moved
Adam Krug: Well, I, I've lived there a while but I guess I'm from California and Nevada to okay
Dr Jameson: All right, so that's an okay so
Dr Jameson: Were you in a dorm or something before or
Adam Krug: I was at one point. That was a long while ago.
Adam Krug: But yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: Um, and then I do you smoke cigarettes or may
Adam Krug: Not smoke cigarettes I occasionally
Adam Krug: If they've been cannabis as a legally purchased
Dr Jameson: Do you have a medical marijuana
Dr Jameson: Card or whatever they say
Adam Krug: Oh, the recommendations for yeah for, like, what, a year or whatever. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Me a little medical marijuana
Adam Krug: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: They give cards in in California. I don't know how they do it there.
Adam Krug: Well, I think you can get like a card or something, but I got a letter of recommendation for your
Okay.
Dr Jameson: And you do that regularly or just here and there.
Adam Krug: Just you're in there.
Dr Jameson: Like
Dr Jameson: Three days a week.
Dr Jameson: At bedtime, every day.
Adam Krug: For three
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: So up to three times per week and it's just a one one.
Dr Jameson: Dose. I don't know how you when you use it or do you when you use it in a day do you do it all day long, or how does that look
Adam Krug: At so maybe like
Adam Krug: Once again dose wise for us to our three
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: All right. And that's, again, treating anxiety or pain or what
Adam Krug: More so the pain.
Adam Krug: Inside anxiety, the THC seems to tend to sometimes elevate the the CBD can be sometimes nice but
Adam Krug: It also helps the pain.
Adam Krug: A little bit. It's like a very sick. Once again, similar to the patches then tiny well
Adam Krug: Okay, got it.
Dr Jameson: And how about alcohol.
Adam Krug: No.
Dr Jameson: Was it a problem are you just not you
Adam Krug: Know it's not my not my thing. I don't have the desire to okay
Dr Jameson: And any other drug use mentioned cannabis, which is still from time to time. Anything else that you use.
Dr Jameson: illicitly
Adam Krug: Know,
Adam Krug: And like the most recent thing is for the things as prescribed to discuss
Dr Jameson: So have you ever used math for benzo cocaine.
Adam Krug: Well, I was prescribed benzodiazepines for an
Adam Krug: Infrequent in like emergency a did I have never used
Dr Jameson: Okay, but you don't have the benzo now or you still do.
Adam Krug: Do not have that right now. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So it's a prescription like for a panic attack or not.
Adam Krug: Yeah, and I think that
Adam Krug: Both of those
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: Um,
Dr Jameson: Alright, so when you were taking you said you use it was always orally. You never inhaled anything or injected anything right.
Adam Krug: Yeah. Never those two
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Typically sublingual
Dr Jameson: Is fentanyl. This was
Dr Jameson: Not for the past month. He said,
Adam Krug: Well,
Adam Krug: Actually yes but it was like I was trying to
Adam Krug: Cross Tabor with like other things, if that makes sense.
Adam Krug: That's why as yeah he's
Adam Krug: Other
Your
Dr Jameson: Scientific about it. I think making like chairs and
Adam Krug: I'm just glad that I'm not dead, because that's why I was like, I don't. I was trying to be very cautious for a reason is
Dr Jameson: Right well right rightfully so.
Dr Jameson: It's always you sometimes he's Tramadol to you said, Yeah.
Adam Krug: Well I, I used an analogue that was like easily we easily, easily accessible mine called oh dismantle travel
Dr Jameson: Okay. Is it like from China or something.
Adam Krug: I don't, I was actually domestic
Adam Krug: Because I didn't want to
Adam Krug: Purchase international from there. Right. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, got it. Okay, so, um,
Dr Jameson: Us. I mean, I guess I'm surprised to hear you say. And it's not uncommon. So I, it doesn't, it's not a problem. I just you. I was surprised to hear you say you haven't used recently because to me, you kind of seem groggy, a little bit.
Dr Jameson: Which is not like I said, I'm kind of used to that in this in this job so
Dr Jameson: But is there anything else you've taken that could make you
Dr Jameson: Sleepy.
Adam Krug: Well, I did just a badly. Unfortunately, wake up like 1005
Adam Krug: However, the only thing that can make me sleepy was
Adam Krug: Let's say
Adam Krug: And yesterday I did take a javelin, which has a lasting effect.
Adam Krug: Yeah. Apart from that,
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, no, cuz you almost have, like, you know what I'm talking about the nodding or like I would, they're kinda
Adam Krug: I don't, you know, I do know you're talking about and I I also get that a bit from gambling, if that makes sense.
Adam Krug: But I also
Adam Krug: I also did
Adam Krug: Wake up recently.
Adam Krug: So I feel like
Adam Krug: shakily cold, if that makes sense. Sitting on
Dr Jameson: Did you ask any cannabis. Right. Yeah.
Adam Krug: I did well yeah I did a bit
Dr Jameson: Okay, well maybe that's what it is.
Dr Jameson: Um, I don't know. I mean, like,
Dr Jameson: I i don't know i don't turn to say like, sometimes you can't see it in yourself, but other people like Kenny, are you can see yourself in the in the video. Right. Do you see what I mean.
Adam Krug: Yeah.
Adam Krug: Compared to you. Yes, especially
Adam Krug: I guess I'm not trying to make. I'm not trying to
Dr Jameson: Make you self conscious. I just, I'm like, hi. What I would have, I would have thought you were going to tell me you use fentanyl like three hours ago or something so
Adam Krug: Thank you for pointing you know
Dr Jameson: No, no, I don't.
Dr Jameson: I just what I it's important that we
Dr Jameson: Let you know it. I just, we need to have a, you know, whatever it is, it is. And, but it's important that I have the full picture because
Dr Jameson: buprenorphine. If you take it before you're really in withdrawal, which in we judged by how long it's been since you've taken an opiate it can create a terrible sudden withdrawal so
Dr Jameson: I asked these questions because I want to make sure we don't have you take it at the wrong time. This is so I'm not trying to
Dr Jameson: Like I said, I'm not trying to put you on the swatter but I just want to make sure you you I'm trying to reassure you, I'm not upset. I don't. It doesn't. I don't judge or anything. I just need to know because otherwise we could have a bad
Dr Jameson: A bad reaction in the first dose, which we don't want to do
Adam Krug: Yeah, and
Adam Krug: I appreciate. Thank you for pointing it out. Well, like I don't know if this would be, it's probably something to consider. Actually, but I took the 300 milligrams
Adam Krug: gabble and at night.
Adam Krug: And typically, that makes me
Adam Krug: A little dizzy student so
Adam Krug: Okay, Association of that it does cause symptoms withdrawals.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. What is, you know, the pre gambling and gabapentin Neurontin for some, not everybody that takes it. But for some people it's sort of cross reacts with some of these same receptors so
Dr Jameson: Anyway, our end up end up for some people they end up being used kind of for other
Dr Jameson: Reasons and you know the original intent with their prescription so
Dr Jameson: Okay, so
Dr Jameson: I just want to make sure I'm
Dr Jameson: Getting everything correct. So you had been prescribed some sort of prescription opiates.
Dr Jameson: At some time ago for this shoulder and everything was I right.
Adam Krug: Um, it wasn't for the shoulder, and it was
Adam Krug: Some time ago. Yes.
Adam Krug: But
Adam Krug: It was for
Adam Krug: Wisdom to through
Dr Jameson: Okay. And that was how old are you when that happens.
Adam Krug: 1615 actually
Adam Krug: Okay.
Dr Jameson: So you got a prescription for like biking in or Percocet, or something.
Adam Krug: Yes, actually, I believe it was nice.
Adam Krug: Purposes, it gives the
Dr Jameson: X equal access to the
Dr Jameson: Medicine. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Okay. So you took that and then I mean, did they give you a whole bunch of it or how long do you take that for
Adam Krug: They gave me a limited split, which I did not take for very long, but I had procured
Adam Krug: oxycodone prior
Dr Jameson: Can that
Dr Jameson: As just like partying with friends are
Adam Krug: As
Adam Krug: Well, it wasn't as prescription. It wasn't really partying his friends either say it was worse or just like a
Adam Krug: Like
Adam Krug: Sort of
Adam Krug: Going about my day. And that was about it.
Dr Jameson: Okay. What was, what was the just, just for our ton of notes. So we know where we can try to help as much we can. Where was we self medicating something or did it just give you a high or what was, what were you, I think.
Adam Krug: At the time it was used for both
Adam Krug: An ability to sleep and in physically
Adam Krug: I think it the inability to sleep it being physically might be related
Dr Jameson: Yeah, yeah. Well, when you have pain and hurt me, for sure. What, what sort of pain, ones that
Adam Krug: I'm like I avoid
Adam Krug: Didn't like
Adam Krug: It.
Adam Krug: So that was
Dr Jameson: Okay. And that was when you are, how
Adam Krug: Well,
Adam Krug: That was also around 15 but
Adam Krug: Think
Adam Krug: Are you
Adam Krug: Started
Dr Jameson: Okay. So you started using that on your own to help you sleep and for various aches and pains of sorts.
Yeah.
Adam Krug: Sorry, I was gonna say. So it's a good an infrequent off and on.
Dr Jameson: Okay so wasn't like a
Dr Jameson: Routine or anything. And then you got the prescription when you were 16
Dr Jameson: And then what happened.
Adam Krug: Then things
Adam Krug: Escalated lately, where it's been quite a while since I've
Adam Krug: Used
Adam Krug: Opioids but
Adam Krug: More recently the offense, you know, as a result of this again just
Adam Krug: Not addressing the pain properly.
Dr Jameson: So you started using fentanyl
Dr Jameson: In the last few months, you say, or before that.
Adam Krug: Yes, last few months.
Dr Jameson: Okay, and how much you every day.
Adam Krug: Not every day.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: So you alternating with the Tramadol. I'm just going to call it Tramadol but
Dr Jameson: Sometimes we've kind of mixing and matching the two or did you just wish to Tramadol after you were trying to stop the phenom
Adam Krug: Uh, well, the, the, the, the terminal analog was, yeah. After the defense and offense. So was
Adam Krug: It wasn't like a an everyday thing, but I also wasn't alternating
Adam Krug: Necessarily because I wouldn't use it for
Adam Krug: Too long of extended periods of time.
Adam Krug: Like okay,
Dr Jameson: Well, what point did you realize you had with you felt sick if you didn't have something
Oh,
Adam Krug: Let's see, that might be about a month and a half to two months now, two months ago, I'd say.
Dr Jameson: Can you describe a little bit just, I mean, most, most the time, it's a fairly consistent description, but what's the. How do you feel like what kind of symptoms do you get when when you start
Adam Krug: Like tension vomiting aches, nausea,
Adam Krug: I
Adam Krug: You know, a society irrational irrational anxiety.
Adam Krug: Insomnia.
Adam Krug: Pain.
Dr Jameson: Some people get like runny nose and yawning and
Dr Jameson: Runny eyes that happen to you.
Adam Krug: I'm just at the same time, I feel like I just feel like sickness and
Adam Krug: There are not even it's a hot and cold.
Dr Jameson: Hmm, that's people describe that a lot. And some people say restless legs.
Dr Jameson: Jenna. Yes. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So not only do you actually help the whole whole body restlessness and sorry you said you vomit, or do you just get nauseous. I
Adam Krug: I have vomited in the back.
Dr Jameson: End
Dr Jameson: If it gets gets long enough. Okay, diarrhea, to
Adam Krug: Some times more than others. It depends on how bad it is.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: So currently, are you having any of those symptoms.
Adam Krug: Currently,
Adam Krug: I am but to a lesser extent, partially due to
Adam Krug: The things such as
Adam Krug: Gamble and but also
Adam Krug: Due to the fact that I have not
Adam Krug: I have not taken
Adam Krug: In the past,
Adam Krug: Like about a month. Okay.
Dr Jameson: But you also get some symptoms when you don't take the preamble and right. Is that what you said.
Dr Jameson: Yes. Okay. And are they similar or is that different
Dr Jameson: highly similar
Adam Krug: But slightly different
Dr Jameson: In how is it slightly different
Adam Krug: Oh, okay. So like the Kaplan
Adam Krug: I don't feel like I'm as
Adam Krug: Hot in cold but I
Adam Krug: That I don't feel like I'm like super sweaty, but I feel more in pain with people to muscular Lee.
Adam Krug: More sensitive and week
Adam Krug: I also have don't really get like diarrhea, because I feel one constipated. Surprisingly, if it's
Dr Jameson: A restless restlessness and insomnia and that kind of stuff.
Dr Jameson: Yes, yes. Okay. So that's the same. It's just the stomach is not quite as intense
Adam Krug: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Dr Jameson: All right. Um,
Dr Jameson: Okay. And then, have you ever been hospitalized of this
Dr Jameson: Okay, and
Dr Jameson: Have you had any overdoses that I asked you that you have not right.
Adam Krug: I have not. You did not ask. Thank you.
Dr Jameson: That was the last page.
Adam Krug: To worry no
Dr Jameson: I did. I couldn't see. Okay, so no overdoses. Fortunately,
Dr Jameson: Luckily, because fentanyl, as you know, is
Dr Jameson: Very dangerous.
Dr Jameson: And
Dr Jameson: Okay, so what, and I'm just, again, so we can know where you're at, where you're at in this whole thing, what brought you to decide to try
Dr Jameson: I guess somebody recommended that buprenorphine is to replace a lot of these other things. Was that the goal.
Dr Jameson: Yes. Okay.
Dr Jameson: And then would you say that you have an addiction problem or what
Adam Krug: You think
Adam Krug: Well, I do think that I have a large problem, but it also feels like
Adam Krug: Or more like a dependence sometimes because I don't feel
Adam Krug: To that extreme. But I do. Yeah. Feeling like do something about it, you know, or, oh, I cannot function without the blank and I don't want, I don't like that.
Uh huh.
Dr Jameson: So, um,
Dr Jameson: Okay, so it helps you sleep and helps with pain. What don't you like about using what you're like where you're at right now with how you're
Adam Krug: Like other
Adam Krug: The
Adam Krug: The cons are with pros because I'm not
Adam Krug: Well,
Adam Krug: I'd say like it's I think it's best to live. Ideally, I'd like to live.
Adam Krug: Without having to take anything
Adam Krug: And
Adam Krug: Like even if it might help with pain or sleeping. I think it also obviously like in the long term can
Adam Krug: Be worse for both those are excited. And so, yeah, choosing it to taper off. It's just a byproduct of
Adam Krug: Greater issue. Okay.
Um,
Dr Jameson: Okay, so, yeah. I mean, I just everybody has their own reasons I just like to hear what what what each person is kind of thinking about, um, okay. So have you been doing okay in school.
Adam Krug: Lately, uh, not as like I've been doing. Okay, as well as I would like. Not as well as I usually do. It's about a low point.
Dr Jameson: You feel that's because of the medications.
Adam Krug: And also I think it's part two to circumstantial reasons and withdrawal or non medicated substances. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so yes okay either taking them are not taking them. And by that, that it has. It's related okay you have you had any legal issues.
Adam Krug: With no no
Dr Jameson: Okay. A lot of people have we had do you Iser gotten
Dr Jameson: Oh, stealing or something. Okay. Um, okay. And then is there anyone in your family that has addiction or dependency type problems.
Adam Krug: Oh yes and
Adam Krug: Like
Adam Krug: To alcohol.
Dr Jameson: Unable to really speak really right now.
Dr Jameson: Is it is it your dad.
Dr Jameson: I can't see you. Sorry.
Dr Jameson: Yes. Okay. And he, I hear, I think I heard and whistling a minute ago.
Dr Jameson: If you there.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Okay, got it. Okay, so he currently still using
Dr Jameson: No. Okay. But so he's in he's sober now.
Yes.
Adam Krug: I, too, would like to try to look into counseling 12 step programs.
Adam Krug: That's I think beneficially that has helped
Dr Jameson: Yeah, you mean for alcohol or just for this.
Adam Krug: For for for alcohol with
Adam Krug: The family.
Dr Jameson: Kind of thing.
Adam Krug: And so also within my situation. I think it could it could apply
Dr Jameson: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so, but your dad is in in recovery.
Dr Jameson: And you
Dr Jameson: Haven't been drinking in the past or no.
Adam Krug: No like
Adam Krug: I've had drinks.
Dr Jameson: But it's hasn't been a problem that I asked you and that's what you'd said before, so I just want to double check. I didn't have something and anybody else in the family.
Adam Krug: Oh, not that I can think of.
Dr Jameson: Okay. Yeah. Okay, the mom's been fine. And how about like uncles or grandparents on anybody else in your dad's family that's
Adam Krug: All I guess, actually.
Adam Krug: Maybe late
Adam Krug: Great.
Adam Krug: To see grandparents.
Adam Krug: Drink a lot. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: It's not unusual.
Dr Jameson: Ok so so paternal grandparents. Was it just okay well anyway.
Adam Krug: Full sides.
Dr Jameson: Oh, both sides. Okay.
Adam Krug: Yeah, I just retired and think
Dr Jameson: I forgot. Okay. Both sides with alcohol.
Adam Krug: Both yeah both grandparents.
Dr Jameson: With up all problem. Okay. All right. And you know, I mean, sometimes there is genetic.
Dr Jameson: It's not always genetic, but it can
Adam Krug: I think it. Yeah, it's probably a
Dr Jameson: Plays a piece anyway. Yeah, I think some of us have more receptors that are easier to
Dr Jameson: Change their set points than others. Some people, you know, are much more sort of
Dr Jameson: Stable or whatever. I don't know if that's not the right word, but the receptors. I'm talking about night the person
Dr Jameson: That you know we're more, some of us are more susceptible than others. Just because of our chemistry and how we're how we're built obviously environmental things also play a role. Not all one or the other, but okay so
Dr Jameson: I was going to ask you some questions about you've mentioned being struck more than one time. Is it, are you able to answer questions like that right now.
Adam Krug: Um, no, but I think I could talk more. Over. Over. Sure.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Okay, so we'll leave that where it is for now but I definitely, I want to make sure you're safe now. First of all, and second of all, I mean, that sounds like it might be playing a role in in in this whole entire sort of, you know,
Dr Jameson: Packages as far as where we've gone
Adam Krug: It will, it was, it was a past X struck me
Adam Krug: But in that, in that instance
Adam Krug: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Um, okay. So, but that's not somebody that you have any contact with now.
Adam Krug: Yes. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Was there any was it
Dr Jameson: I mean, I just told her I wouldn't ask
Dr Jameson: So, are there more than one partner that was abusive, in your experience, or just that one.
Adam Krug: I'm really just that, that one especially physically. Yes.
Dr Jameson: And how it's been how long since you have been
Dr Jameson: X.
Adam Krug: Oh, like two months.
Dr Jameson: So pretty recent.
Adam Krug: Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: And that wasn't How long was that relationship.
Adam Krug: By year. OK.
OK.
Dr Jameson: OK. So previously, and any other trying to ask yes or no questions. Any other
Dr Jameson: Like where you any other physical abuse in your life by any like
Dr Jameson: Just this partner.
Adam Krug: Others.
Adam Krug: Others. Okay.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: I like I said, We'll wait till you're in a
Adam Krug: private place to
Dr Jameson: Get into details. Okay, but you're feeling you feel safe currently
Yes.
Dr Jameson: I'm glad to hear that.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so, um,
Dr Jameson: I have to say I'm not entirely. I've never transition someone specifically from pregabalin to Suboxone. So this is a little bit of a new new one for me.
Dr Jameson: It sounds similar and I have done like you know somebody was using them. And anyway, so it's okay. I'm just being
Dr Jameson: fully honest with you, I'm usually we want people to wait a certain amount of time after they use whatever the substance is and I'm not sure what to tell you on the Lyrica because
Dr Jameson: I haven't come across this the general rule of thumb is that you need to. Unfortunately we do have the one drawback of Suboxone is or buprenorphine is that you need to enter into withdrawal and be feeling
Dr Jameson: Significantly uncomfortable. Before we introduce the buprenorphine for the first initial dose.
Dr Jameson: And I, you seem like you're someone that has, you know, done a lot of research. So what before I launch into a whole lecture about stuff you already know. Tell me, give me a just an idea of what you already know about the buprenorphine.
Adam Krug: Um, I am just too familiar with it is
Adam Krug: A
Adam Krug: And globally. That really is pain and can also be used to
Adam Krug: Help people taper off of addictions or dependencies. At the same time, with
Adam Krug: In terms of the buprenorphine.
Adam Krug: Be printing print nor she yes
Adam Krug: Yeah, but I'm also. Lastly, I guess. But in terms of the
Adam Krug: PR gambling. That seems to take about like a
Adam Krug: Lot when by late later says seem to start to feel it, then it seems like a day and a half his rule of thumb for minutes out of your system, but um
Dr Jameson: But yeah, I was gonna ask you to help me, help me with that because, yeah. Um, okay. So as far as how the buprenorphine works are you, I want to make sure you understand it. But if you already do then.
Oh,
Adam Krug: Thank you for asking, and
Adam Krug: As far as I know, it can come in different forms like
Adam Krug: A
Dr Jameson: Tablet. There's a film. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: So the way that it works. You were right. So, and it has to be absorbed. It's a kind of a unique medication, it's absorbed through your
Dr Jameson: mucosal membrane. So that's why they have these things that you have to dissolve in your mouth and try not to actually swallow the medicine let sit there and be absorbed through the, through the
Dr Jameson: Usually the bottom of your, your mouth is keep some is a roof but but the base of church underneath, you're done.
Dr Jameson: If it gets swallowed into your stomach. It does not get absorbed nearly as well. So that's it's kind of like I said it's a little bit unique, but the way that it works in your brain.
Dr Jameson: You know, we have different receptors and there's different opioid even receptors. Some subtypes. Some of those receptors are the ones that cause euphoria some make you sleepy. And if you really activate those that receptor.
Dr Jameson: To pass out. And then eventually stopped breathing. If it's really, really turned on. There are other receptors that deal with pain. And then there's receptors that deal with some of these other physical constipation and
Dr Jameson: Nausea, Vomiting appetite. The hot but apparently it affects your temperature regulation, right, because people always feel weird when they take take away the opioids, but the hot and the cold.
Dr Jameson: And the restlessness and those sorts of things. So the way that the buprenorphine works is it's sort of
Dr Jameson: It turns on some of those receptors and it blocks or turns off some of the, some of them so they designed it specifically so that it turns off the receptors that can make you overdose. So it's relatively safe that it doesn't really
Dr Jameson: It goes in that receptor, but then it kind of blocks things from from being in there and turns it off.
Dr Jameson: Then it goes into the receptors that do the physical things and turns those on so that you feel it makes your physical withdrawal symptoms.
Dr Jameson: Go away.
Dr Jameson: So,
Dr Jameson: It blocks, also in the sense. So on a different level. It also blocks. Because once it's in the receptor. It sticks in there. We call it has a very strong affinity
Dr Jameson: So it's like binds very tightly to these receptors and it's almost impossible to get it out until it wears off on its own in its own time.
Dr Jameson: So that means that if somebody is also prescribed by getting by their dentist or decides to go take a hit of whatever
Dr Jameson: They can you can put another opiate in your system, but the receptors are all filled up and you know other opiate just kind of has nowhere to go and filters out and that it doesn't do anything. So, it blocks in that sense.
Dr Jameson: As well.
Dr Jameson: It pushes other opiates out as well. So that's the reason why it's important we wait until you're already in withdrawal, because if we introduce the Suboxone buprenorphine.
Dr Jameson: Bile you have other opiates in your system in your in the receptors. The buprenorphine will come in and push them out and then stick. So now you suddenly go into this terrible withdrawal and there's nothing we can do until
Dr Jameson: Time wears off in the end the it creates it's just very, very uncomfortable for people. So we want to make sure that you're we want to kind of come in when the, when the receptors are reasonably empty and fill them up instead of knocking something else out. Does that make sense.
Adam Krug: Yeah, and thank you, I appreciate the new info. Luckily,
Adam Krug: Consider per Gamblin to be your average IQ and there are no, no, it's okay, it's my system.
Adam Krug: Just
Dr Jameson: I think just to be on the safe side because even though it's
Dr Jameson: If you're right, it's a Gabba it mostly hits the GABA receptor.
Dr Jameson: I would just because the symptoms you experience are so similar to an opioid withdrawal. I'm concerned that it might also be in your case.
Dr Jameson: Somehow partially activating some of those opioid receptors, also in some way. There's sometimes it's like a cross reactivity and I
Dr Jameson: I just don't want to find out the hard way. But, oh, I guess it did have some hope you know I'm saying, like, you don't want you to be
Dr Jameson: puking your guts out for the next 12 hours or something. So I would I would I would strongly encourage and I'm happy to send like some other you know anti his there's some other minor medications we can try to use in the meantime to kind of
Dr Jameson: Address uncomfortable symptoms.
Dr Jameson: Until sounds like maybe tomorrow afternoon or night would probably be if you don't take any more pregabalin would probably be the safest time to actually take your first dose of the buprenorphine.
Dr Jameson: So,
Dr Jameson: It sounds like sleep might be an issue and anxiety in general would be the target. The target symptoms. Okay, so we'll come back to that. So, um,
Dr Jameson: I just want to the other subject. Is this the structure of our program in general they. I don't think they generally explain too much about that. Two guys so I tend to go through that as well.
Dr Jameson: Which is that we have weekly groups where is which is where the prescriptions are generally I mean today my prescription, but then going forward you you'd have a visit with me in concert with a group
Dr Jameson: Counselor, and I mean the interaction with me is like you need a refill is your bills. Okay. You know, it's not a in depth like
Dr Jameson: Medical discussion because there are other people sitting there, so
Dr Jameson: But that's how that's how we structure it so we start out with very short prescriptions like days worth of medication. And then as you attend groups and then
Dr Jameson: There's other other pieces. But we start to extend the prescription duration to a whole week. And then after a few months.
Dr Jameson: All things working as as according to plan, two weeks at a time prescriptions and eventually like six months and usually something like that when things are getting really stable and
Dr Jameson: You know, we're making progress as far as some of
Dr Jameson: The counseling and some of that kind of stuff, then we can potentially be prescribing it a month at a time, just like you would with any other medication usually
Dr Jameson: The groups meet weekly even if you're getting a prescription for more or less time than that. But you still come to group every week.
Dr Jameson: Sometimes eventually again oh well into the future, we we graduate people to come into group every other week, but that takes you know that's after a good while.
Dr Jameson: What we do at the group's besides me ready for people is talk about like recovery skills relapse prevention. It's not like per se. A 12 STEP program.
Dr Jameson: We do usually recommend people also do 12 step programs, but we're we kind of work on a little bit of a
Dr Jameson: We talk more about stress management and coping skills and those kinds of subjects.
Dr Jameson: These days, there are actually a ton of them. I mean, there were before, but now there's even more online 12 step meeting program type things because of the covert so we can give you some references or resources for that.
Dr Jameson: And we do usually recommend people are having at least two or three other meetings a week in between the weekly groups with us.
Adam Krug: Great, if you could send data sources.
Dr Jameson: Sore um, do you have a pen. I can give you some right the second
Adam Krug: I actually do. Yeah, thanks.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Adam Krug: Thank you. Whenever you're ready.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so there's a website called in the rooms, all one word.
Dr Jameson: You just Google that. And you can enter you can create an account and it asks you, your local area at one point.
Dr Jameson: Back in the old days, and people had actual local live meetings, it will it will list like these are the meetings in your area and then they have subtypes like
Dr Jameson: I checked it out where I live in Florida, but I put in my my zip code and what came up for me was like, first there was, and they I'm sure they self. They gave themselves these names, but it was something like silver
Dr Jameson: Something like obviously was more older folks right and then there was an LGBT group. And there's a all women group. And then there's the
Dr Jameson: Yeah, anyway, they have separate like kind of sub groups to to help you kind of find your peeps, a little easier.
Dr Jameson: And then, and you sometimes have to go to a number of them until you kind of find the group that seems like it fits best with your sort of life experience and approach and stuff like that.
Dr Jameson: Now they're doing them on. They do have online groups. They always have some so they also have them ongoing I think all the time. And so you can just kind of
Dr Jameson: Go down the hallway and find the room that looks like.
Dr Jameson: A good fit. And you can just sit and listen. They have somewhere. It's like all chat based and then they have some that are video live like this is so there's a variety of different kind of options there.
Dr Jameson: Now if you go. The other thing to write down as a 24 seven. I think they call it, but I think if you just go to the A site.
Dr Jameson: They'll probably see something about the online groups now they've kind of had to make a lot of their groups online and obviously na
Dr Jameson: The in the rooms will have both an A and na in there. And in case you wonder, there's a very big overlap in the 12 steps are kind of the 12 steps. It doesn't really matter what the drug of choice was it's mostly
Dr Jameson: The steps are still the steps. So sometimes people who are really opiate addicts end up in a meeting, assuming the people in the meeting. Don't judge them because sometimes what happens. Oh, well, we were just alcoholics. We weren't heroin addicts or whatever, you know, sometimes you get
Dr Jameson: Though so
Dr Jameson: Sometimes you have to like I said you have to kind of move around, but either one is applicable, even if you're not an alcoholic technically alcohol wasn't your drug of choice. The A meetings are probably, you know, still very relevant.
Dr Jameson: So those are two online.
Dr Jameson: Meeting types of things. Are you religious is religion, a
Part of so
Adam Krug: Let's say I'm really
Adam Krug: Not really.
Adam Krug: Okay.
Dr Jameson: I'm only because there are some that are more faith based so if if that's not. I mean, they all talk about a higher power, but it's really more
Dr Jameson: Of a spiritual thing than a, you know, super duper strong religious Tom. But there's something called Celebrate Recovery, which I believe is more faith based naming. It's like
Dr Jameson: And then the another app that I would like you to download before your first group is called insight I N si GH t
Dr Jameson: Second name is
Dr Jameson: The second word is timer. I don't know why they named it that, but that's the name that is free and it's full of
Dr Jameson: They have an upgraded version that has even more stuff like courses and stuff. So you might find you wanted to purchase it, but the plane when that's not paid for has, like, I don't know how many 10s of thousands of different meditations and
Dr Jameson: Relaxing music and little talks about different sub like Buddhist ideas. Anyway, just a ton of stuff all about different mental health.
Dr Jameson: Coping with loss grief anger self esteem eating problem. I mean, everything you can search in there and come up with more things. And you can even begin to get to
Dr Jameson: So I think that's a we recommend that a lot for people who, if you're in the moment of feeling like a panic attack or can't sleep or
Dr Jameson: Something comes up and is bothering you. This is a good resource to go sit in a quiet place for 10 minutes and play your play your meditation and do your breathing and kind of help calm yourself down.
Dr Jameson: So that's also, I think, a very rich resource. And I don't know why it's even free because it's so it's really good. So
Dr Jameson: So those are a couple of different resources.
Dr Jameson: In addition to the weekly group, you'll have an initial set of bloodwork that they get you sort of a plan on how that's gonna happen.
Adam Krug: Not to my knowledge. I, I did hear about diagnostics Quest Diagnostics within 1.2 miles. But yes, yes.
Dr Jameson: So that's where they want you to go then. Because that's often we usually use quest. Usually what that they typically they send
Dr Jameson: Orders electronically, I guess, to the to the lab.
Dr Jameson: And they are in here, sent
Dr Jameson: On 510
Dr Jameson: So what I would suggest if there's any way you could actually just get those done and out of the way, between now and your first group that would really be my preference, because I find this if it doesn't happen in the first week or two.
Dr Jameson: It's like people just don't do it at all. And we really, we do want to have a baseline. What we're, what we're checking is sort of baseline.
Dr Jameson: kidney and liver functions. Make sure everything in your body is working right before we're giving you too much medicine that you might not metabolize right or something and then we screen.
Dr Jameson: Which probably isn't really relevant for you that much but never, never bad to get screened for hepatitis and HIV and stuff like stuff that you could potentially somebody who was injecting especially
Dr Jameson: Along the way, could have picked up so we screen for those two and then you do a urine, which shows, whatever. It shows it's not expected to be, you know,
Dr Jameson: A plus or whatever. It's just the kind of, you know, see where we're starting from. Basically, so there's no reason to fear if there might be something coming up in your urine, we're not, we don't. In general, even
Dr Jameson: At any point, we're not really a punitive kind of program, we're really focusing what we call harm reduction. So we're just doing whatever you know
Dr Jameson: Trying to help make the likelihood of relapse as low as possible and improve the chances for long term successful recovery. So sobriety.
Dr Jameson: So we understand, not that I don't want to say, Oh, don't worry, it's no big deal. Like I we we hope for, you know, appropriate, as I say, appropriate or expected urine drug results. But if something shows up that we were hoping not to see. We don't kick people out or
Dr Jameson: You know, I'm probably going to ask to meet with you individually. Let's talk about it. I'd like to know what was going on. What happened, what's what's what's going on. Are you okay
Dr Jameson: And then what have you figured like what did you learn about, you know, this process, what did you learn from that experience, you know, what can we work on to change for the next time you're feeling
Dr Jameson: Those ideas. Ideas are entering your, your head, that kind of thing. So there's no reason to delay the medic the labs, because you don't want us to see something it doesn't
Dr Jameson: It's fine, doesn't matter. It's actually rather know whatever else is whatever is in there will kind of like know about it, obviously will expect to see
Dr Jameson: THC.
Dr Jameson: And we don't people ask me that question to we, you know, it's very in a perfect world, I'd love people to all sort of live in a fully present on that, you know, altered state, but it's legal in some states now so I mean we can't, we can't. We don't. Anyway, I guess we could, but we don't
Dr Jameson: Absolutely forbid or ban it or I mean
Dr Jameson: So that will, you know, I have patients that test positive for THC every month, along with their buprenorphine.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: Well, you know, we can we can work with it. It's again, ideally, if we can get this feeling better and and anxieties, sort of, well controlled and
Dr Jameson: coping skills in, you know, kind of bolstered maybe don't feel the need at some point to use that, which would be great. So that's kind of where we how we approach that in case you were wondering.
Adam Krug: Thank you.
Dr Jameson: So, initial labs. So what I would suggest, if you want to write it on your on your paper there is to find that quest on your Google or whatever, call them.
Dr Jameson: Ask them, did they said they sent an order for me is it in your system and make sure that it is before you schlep down there and make an appointment and then go and sit there and wait and then they tell you we don't have any order for you.
Dr Jameson: It should be there. But sometimes things don't go as expected. So if they don't see an order for you then go back to virtual clinic and explain. Okay. Well, the lab didn't get my order. What should we do
Dr Jameson: And whether they can email it to you and you can carry it to them or they can send it again and confirm by phone that they receive it.
Dr Jameson: But I would do that. I would do that before you go down there just to save yourself frustration.
Dr Jameson: And then at that point if they have it. You can either schedule an appointment or any way you can figure out when the best time to go to the lab is
Dr Jameson: I need to look you up. I forgot to look you up in the there's a database that all pharmacies have to report anytime they feel any kind of controlled substance for any patients they they put it in here and we are mandated to be checking, Matt.
Dr Jameson: All right, are you, is it June 29 99
Dr Jameson: Yes. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay, making me feel old.
Adam Krug: Very young, young ish
Adam Krug: Quarter life.
Dr Jameson: Alright, so it does not Joel shy but I'm here because I don't know. I put I put Jill instead of bad. Okay, try again. That's why nothing came up
Dr Jameson: I think that was my last patients first
Dr Jameson: Okay, there you are.
Dr Jameson: Oh, and they can they can tell me about Arizona to. Interesting. OK.
Dr Jameson: OK, so I'm unless includes you're saying you know it does include the javelin, and the decks drolma amphetamines, there will consider control. So they show up in here too. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Everything as as expected. I think no surprises there. So, but I have to check that before I send the fish. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Good. Um,
So,
Dr Jameson: I'm jumping all around. Sorry. The other piece, besides the labs and the weekly group, we need to pick a group for you.
Dr Jameson: What's your day like on Wednesdays generally
Adam Krug: Well as of right now, it should be free by our schedule is flexible as class just kind of finished.
Dr Jameson: Okay, is
Dr Jameson: noon on Wednesday doable.
Adam Krug: It's doable. Uh, maybe like two days later might be nice.
Dr Jameson: Otherwise, it's okay. Yeah, I have a 10:30am and noon.
Dr Jameson: Noon.
Dr Jameson: OK.
Dr Jameson: OK, so that will be Wednesday and if you have a calendar and your phone, I would very strongly encourage you to put it in there and set alarms for like an hour ahead or something so that you're awake and
Dr Jameson: We, we need people checking in, usually because there can be everybody checking in at once that can get backed up.
Dr Jameson: So we typically typically ask people to start checking in about half an hour before it actually starts to make sure you're all everything's if you have to wait and then they have to go through stuff that you're actually ready at the time group starts
Dr Jameson: So that would mean if you put it in for your phone for 1130 then you're safe you know I'm saying
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: What time do you usually wake up.
Adam Krug: Um, it depends on my schedule. But as of right now.
Adam Krug: Around 10am
Dr Jameson: Okay, so at least you're not at risk of sleeping way through it.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: If it turns out that it's really not working as a time like you really need something later. I don't have anything later.
Dr Jameson: And I, I just have my groups on Wednesdays. But there are other than a bunch of other doctors and all different times. So we can always transfer you to some different time that works better for you.
Adam Krug: Thank you. Chicken short
Dr Jameson: They will also the, oh, the other section or pop
Dr Jameson: Piece of our program is individual counseling. So we do the groups to talk about general general things like how to calm yourself down. And what what are the stages of relapse and how can you identify what when you're at risk for relaxing and making plans for what you're going to do.
Dr Jameson: We also ask people to meet with counselors individually to go through some of their other maybe more personal.
Dr Jameson: You know, things that that you probably don't need to talk about or want to talk about in a group.
Dr Jameson: That are probably playing roles in some of how we've gotten where we're at. And that's usually the anxieties and maybe PTSD. If it, if it's, if applicable, and
Dr Jameson: You know, dealing with difficult relationships or whatever, like stuff that's happened to you in the past that, that hasn't really been fully like processed and healed from that kind of stuff.
Dr Jameson: So we do an initial assessment which they refer to as a bio psychosocial. It's a very long mouthful but you meet with a counselor, they ask you a bunch of questions.
Dr Jameson: And then based on that they come up with a recommendation for okay you need to meet with a counselor every day. No, just kidding.
Dr Jameson: Twice a week, once a week, every other week, whatever they you know what what depending on how many different things. They, they kind of identify that they probably need to help work with you on
Dr Jameson: And then that will be happening kind of in parallel to the group visits. You'll also be meeting periodically with the individual counselor to do some some more kind of
Dr Jameson: You know, in depth kind of stuff.
Dr Jameson: Um,
Dr Jameson: Any questions for that.
Adam Krug: Don't think so but I appreciate a meaningful.
Dr Jameson: You're very polite.
Dr Jameson: And then you have your headphones on. So it shouldn't be an issue. But we do require headphones for group for
Dr Jameson: privacy reasons, like for example your dad's on the back. I can't see you, but maybe somebody your friend somebody sitting in the room, how we can't tell that people are sharing personal information.
Dr Jameson: In this case, it's just me and you. So I don't, I wouldn't have cared anyway but but now, other people are sharing their personal stuff we need it to be confidential so I'm glad you have headphones. Make sure you have them when you come to group.
Dr Jameson: You don't while you babe, I guess we ask people not to be inhaling anything during group, either because that's distracting and triggers for people that are trying to quit.
Dr Jameson: We asked people to be sober when they come to not to come to group under the influence. And ideally, is the perfect like in a quiet place where there aren't a lot of distractions, so that there's a lot of background noise and that kind of stuff.
Dr Jameson: We will be gentle with you when you first start attending groups, we don't we don't put people on the spot.
Dr Jameson: We may invite you, if you want to participate, but you're not going to be forced to
Dr Jameson: You know, do too much talking in the first few weeks, we get it. Like you might just want to listen along for a while you're welcome to participate more actively at first. If you are comfortable, but, you know, we may john is the counts or he may ask if you want to
Dr Jameson: If you have anything to add, but you can 100% say no, not really. Not sure. Next week I'll maybe, you know, I don't know. Come back to me. You know, you can totally defer. That's fine.
Dr Jameson: We do finish every week. It's always the same. We go around and everybody says something they're grateful for.
Dr Jameson: So I think we probably would ask you to answer that question. But other than that, I always let people know ahead of time so you can be prepared. You're not caught off guard. So you can
Dr Jameson: You can
Dr Jameson: Decide what you want to say beforehand if you want to
Dr Jameson: That's kind of the way that group works.
Dr Jameson: You started the virtual clinic to check in and then they'll make sure everything's all squared, whatever they need to make sure it's all set and then
Dr Jameson: They give you this email or text you I guess the meeting ID code which changes every week. So you really do have to go through the virtual clinic. You can't just try to put in the last week's ID number because it won't work.
Dr Jameson: Just so you know.
Dr Jameson: Thank you. Um, and then
Dr Jameson: I think, you know, as far as dosing goes you know there's sort of, I think we probably should.
Dr Jameson: First of all, I think you should really try to wait as long as you can until you're really feeling
Dr Jameson: as uncomfortable as you can stand to feel before you take the first dose. As we explained
Dr Jameson: But as far as dosing goes and you've never tried it. I know a lot of times people have purchased it themselves from
Adam Krug: I've never tried to
Adam Krug: Okay.
Dr Jameson: I'm just checking. So way for me to cheat on the dose.
Dr Jameson: People sometimes have already tried it. Um, do you have insurance.
Adam Krug: If you
Dr Jameson: Is it
Dr Jameson: Private insurance or medical or
Adam Krug: I'm done with a PPO you shield. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Okay, I just
Dr Jameson: Want so
Dr Jameson: Most insurances want the generic almost always but medical it has, they must have signed, they must have some deal with the company that makes brand name Suboxone they require the brand name only prescription. That's the only reason I'm asking
Dr Jameson: It comes in tablets and films.
Dr Jameson: The tablets are more inexpensive. So often the insurance companies prefer that one. There's not a difference as far as what's the ingredients of the medication, but obviously tablets are thicker.
Dr Jameson: chalky things and slip, you know, films or films. So some people don't like the taste of one compared to the other. Sometimes we try one and then try the other one. And see, but
Dr Jameson: I would
Dr Jameson: Be inclined to write for the tablet at first because a lot of times insurance will say no, you have to do the tablets, because it's cheaper.
Dr Jameson: But I don't really. I don't care. Whichever one which one you so do you, do you have a sense of which one you would prefer
Adam Krug: Um, so this is speaking about the buprenorphine.
Adam Krug: Is there a difference in how the medication is being gives or like a duration was
Um,
Dr Jameson: There is not supposed to be. I just had a guy tell me my last call that he found the tablets didn't work as well for him. It seemed compared to the strips.
Dr Jameson: He was also buying them off the streets. So whether they were really Suboxone. I don't know if that's really what they were, you know, I don't know.
Dr Jameson: I have some people don't like the taste of the films they find them really gross. And then other people prefer the films and don't like the taste of the tablet. So I think it's it's really an individual thing but know that it's not supposed to be any different.
Adam Krug: Um I to well i i'm not even thinking about it. As you can see, but I
Adam Krug: Like more inclined to prefer the films, but is the film going to be like 40 bucks kind of our covered or
Dr Jameson: Um, well, what I would say is if they say they won't pay for it will will substitute it with with with the tablet.
Dr Jameson: You know, I'll put okay to substitute. So if that's if that's their if that's their
Dr Jameson: You know requirement or that's what they want, then we'll, we'll try it anyway. And then if it bothers you, at least we have a reason why we want to ask them to pay for the thing that they said they didn't want to pay for
Dr Jameson: Okay, so we'll start with the film. And what I would like you to do because because this isn't transferring from say fentanyl to buprenorphine.
Dr Jameson: I want to start on the lower side dose wise and then we can always add more if we need it but you know it's a it's a guess, to some degree of how much of this stuff you'll need.
Dr Jameson: But I'm going to ask you to take
Dr Jameson: Half of the film, and you can just snippet with literally snip it with scissors.
Dr Jameson: And then we actually have an induction protocol, which I don't know if you how much you've looked around, if you've seen that anywhere. I'll have I can have Jamie
Dr Jameson: Or one of the one of the staff members email it to you. But what we usually do is have you take the four milligram dose and then wait an hour.
Dr Jameson: And if you're feeling great then that's it. Don't just maybe take it again 12 hours later, you do it twice a day if you really don't feel any different at all. You take the other half.
Dr Jameson: And sort of we kind of like stepwise increase it as needed.
Dr Jameson: So,
Dr Jameson: Have you seen it. The, the induction procedure and all
Adam Krug: I do not know.
Adam Krug: Sounds like you haven't. I don't think so.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, that's fine. I'm
Dr Jameson: Okay, so that's fine. I will have them email it to you because you don't, you're not even going to take it to. And this is actually kind of good because there may be a prior off, it has to be filled out and so
Dr Jameson: Where we can get all that done while we're while you're still going through the weight the waiting period anyway.
Dr Jameson: So I'm going to send. Just a couple because you're going to come to group on Wednesday, you will have taken maybe two to three doses by then to maybe on a Monday morning.
Dr Jameson: So I'll just say two days.
Dr Jameson: So usually I usually try to line it up so that you're going to get your refills around the time you're coming to group every week. So, so I just want to give you a little bit to get to group and then once we have a better idea of what your doses and give you a week supply at that point.
Adam Krug: Okay, okay.
Dr Jameson: So they they can the the film's can get a little bit
Dr Jameson: Mushy sticky fine. So I would you know the other half, I would put in like a zip lock or something. Try to keep it.
Dr Jameson: Sometimes they kind of if it's human they can kind of like
Dr Jameson: Melt in their little in their little and I would try to keep it in. It's the foil route like open the full wrap snippet, and half but save the for, like, put it back in and try to kind of
Dr Jameson: Contain it again until you're going to use the other half. That makes sense.
Adam Krug: Yeah, makes a lot of sense because boy came patches to kind of something similar.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Okay. And then I have a CVS pharmacy and 41st street in here. Is that the right one.
Adam Krug: Yeah. Let me double check really quick, though.
Adam Krug: Just to be sure
Dr Jameson: Going to send a note to I have. We call them care man care navigators and my care navigators Jamie, so I'm going to ask her to email you this induction protocol.
Dr Jameson: Sometimes, a lot of times patients are using heroin, you know, gram a day or something. We don't we just start them at the full dose, because we know they're going to need it. So I don't always do it by the stepwise way.
Dr Jameson: Okay, please email me induction. I should have it on my computer. So I can send it, but I don't know the induction.
Dr Jameson: And have we tested to make sure they have the correct email for you.
Adam Krug: I believe so. Because I've been receiving emails.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Because they also send you
Dr Jameson: The last pieces is the surveys that they have our patients fill out every week.
Dr Jameson: So they send you an email with the surveys in it too.
Dr Jameson: Is that, did you find the pharmacy.
Adam Krug: Oh, I did. As a matter of fact, and it is the correct one. Okay, thank you.
Dr Jameson: So,
We'll send
Dr Jameson: I'm just going to send for a little phones and you're taking a half at a time. So I think you'll have plenty to get you through Wednesday anyway.
Adam Krug: Thank you.
Dr Jameson: And then as far as other symptoms.
Go.
Dr Jameson: Sorry, let me get this done. So I can, I have to enter double codes that expires and five seconds so
Dr Jameson: As far as other medications, go for anxiety and all that stuff. So currently, you're not taking the Lyrica because that's kind of the whole point of this, you have this anxiety, the lighter Durham and then approx in and that's it right
Adam Krug: Yes. Okay.
Dr Jameson: And so I'll make sure there aren't any interactions with whatever I prescribe okay so
Dr Jameson: Have you ever taken.
Dr Jameson: Either Clonidine not Klonopin Clonidine or visceral or Hydrazine is another name for it.
Adam Krug: As a matter of fact both. And yeah, I've also taken marked as a PM, which I still have for as you put that on my interest on but which both of those maybe really grow.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, well, my. The reason I would be prescribing something would be if you're feeling really anxious and restless and you can't sleep.
Dr Jameson: Oh, so we're looking for something that would make you a little cranky. Actually, do you have doesn't Murtaza P make you sleepy.
Adam Krug: Yes, too sleepy. So in case I have sleep issues, I might I could try. Perhaps the transit on unless you have a better suggestion, because I
Adam Krug: Also feel restless these well
Dr Jameson: You've taken Clonidine
Adam Krug: That's actually very helpful. I don't know. Have them, but I have in the past.
Dr Jameson: And that's you use that for what symptom.
Adam Krug: I'm like sleep and anxiety rich
Dr Jameson: Does it help because some people find it helps with the hot, cold feeling and the restlessness.
Dr Jameson: Oh,
Adam Krug: The restlessness, as well as
Dr Jameson: It does. It has helped that before for you.
Adam Krug: Yeah, and I haven't tried it for the opiate withdrawal symptoms.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so maybe that's what we'll do. Because you've had it before you know it doesn't bother. It doesn't cause a problem.
Dr Jameson: Stick with stuff we know okay so you currently also have a supply of travel down and Murtaza team.
Dr Jameson: Yes, I just, okay, but you don't take them every day.
Adam Krug: No, no. There I guess they actually feel what kind of restless so weird combo. It's not a, like a long term grade thing either sales feel impair the next day it Clemente
Adam Krug: I used to cook on or something applauded. Yeah.
Adam Krug: Canada, whatever it is. That's right. Yeah, that's better.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so, um, but you have something you can take tonight. If you can't fall asleep.
Adam Krug: Yes.
Dr Jameson: Okay. And, you know,
Dr Jameson: I don't know if you probably are smart enough to have already tried this, but sometimes taking a half of whatever it is you have if it gives you too much of a hangover the next day, sometimes taking a lower dose health looks better.
Adam Krug: Yeah, I agree with both of them. It's weird because even a half
Adam Krug: Day kind of caused similar symptoms.
Dr Jameson: What um DOS right do you have the mortality.
Adam Krug: I believe it's 15 milligrams actually know that
Dr Jameson: Yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: And do you know your dose on trouser no
Adam Krug: I think it's 50 but I split it always
Dr Jameson: Do split them are tapping into
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Okay, so you're already doing that and it makes you kind of agitated. Is that what you were saying or jittery
Adam Krug: It's not agitated. It's just like restless, rather than jittery, it's like I I'm sleepy but I'm restless at the same time.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: That doesn't sound very comfortable.
Dr Jameson: Okay. Um, so you've never tried hydroxyl seen
They have
Adam Krug: Started. What's the next one.
Dr Jameson: Well, that's the same thing. They're just two different names for the same one sister. Oh, it's the brand name.
Dr Jameson: So you've tried the hydroxyl seen before.
Adam Krug: Yes.
Adam Krug: Compared to the
Adam Krug: Current in class.
Dr Jameson: Today,
Adam Krug: Yeah. Thank you. On a dean.
Adam Krug: Has a long, a while ago.
Adam Krug: But I find that more effective for what I definitely star. I remember when I was like 14
Dr Jameson: The Hi Dr. Dean was more effective or the quantity
Dr Jameson: Clonidine, okay.
Dr Jameson: Does it make you sleepy.
Adam Krug: Yeah, that's what I remembered
Dr Jameson: Okay, okay. Alright, so let's just leave it um
Dr Jameson: Let's see what I send some quantity. So you can use that. Well, you can use that after you start the buprenorphine to because they work in different ways, but you can certainly use that today tonight, tomorrow, while you're sort of trying to wait wait it out as best you can.
Dr Jameson: So I would say if you say it's a day and a half to when you usually start not feeling good at all. I would say we want a minimum
Dr Jameson: To be at the day and a half, we usually try to ask people to get not just to their. OK, now I can tell something is starting with withdrawal. We asked them to get down to like
Dr Jameson: Get into, like, Okay, I don't know how much more of this. I can take level, just to make sure that we don't put you into with even more intense withdrawal.
Dr Jameson: So if you have a quantity to use would najah medicine be helpful to
Adam Krug: That actually probably would have never tried that.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you never had. You've never had it even when you are sick with a stomach bug or anything.
Adam Krug: Not to my knowledge. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: The one we usually use is called So Fran on dance. The Tron is the brand is the generic name. It's a little tablet also melts under your tongue.
Dr Jameson: That's done that way because if you're actively vomiting. We can still get it into without having to go to your stomach so
Dr Jameson: It's a, it's a different reason why it's happens to be a melt in your mouth.
Dr Jameson: But anyway.
Adam Krug: Really, really quick question.
Adam Krug: If they're both sublingual or rather than caustic because like curious impact.
Dr Jameson: And nobody's ever asked me that.
I
Dr Jameson: Nobody has ever mentioned the the box on like burning or singing or anything when they complain. It's usually
Dr Jameson: They don't like the taste.
Dr Jameson: Frankly,
Dr Jameson: But some people, like I said, some people prefer the film. So I think that's obviously a personal, personal preference kind of thing. I've never heard of anybody saying I think about it being caustic
Dr Jameson: Usually the XO friend the nausea medicine is like a few doses and then you know you're not feeling sick anymore. You don't keep taking it so
Dr Jameson: It wouldn't be a long term thing anyway. But I've, I don't know. I've given it to people in an urgent care like while I'm standing there, nobody's ever went
Dr Jameson: You know, the taste. I've actually taken, taken one verte. I mean, it was one manufacturer, but it was kind of tasted like great remind me of kids Tylenol.
Adam Krug: Let's good
Adam Krug: Yes, goes over things
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so, and I don't know if they're all that flavor. Maybe, maybe not. But that's the one I had
Dr Jameson: And it just melts, you can
Dr Jameson: You actually don't have to put it under your tongue. It just has to melt it just dissolves in your mouth. Doesn't matter where
Oh,
Dr Jameson: And the, the Suboxone buprenorphine will come with instructions and they probably they haven't
Dr Jameson: Jamie said she just emailed you the induction plan. There may be some instructions on that too, but you basically they want you to, like I said, we want you to not eat or drink anything for about 10 minutes before or 10 minutes after
Dr Jameson: You just set it in there and let it melt until it's completely dissolved and then start your 10 minute clock for not eating or drinking anything and do your best not to swallow.
Dr Jameson: You know i i don't know how that works sometimes because I I know I make a lot of saliva, but you try to let it sit there, as opposed to swallowing swallowing it as its melting
Adam Krug: Sounds good. How long does it take to melt soon.
Dr Jameson: I don't think the strip takes too long, maybe five minutes, something like that.
Adam Krug: Oh this stuff.
Dr Jameson: The tablets can take longer because they're kind of thicker and clunkier that's
Dr Jameson: Part of what sometimes people don't like about them.
Dr Jameson: You can always like snippet, even into two. I know you're already cutting in half. But you can take that half snip that into if it's taking a long time to melt for you. You can snip that into two pieces and like put one under each side or on your cheek or something just to have
Dr Jameson: I don't know, maybe that would make it go a little bit faster.
Adam Krug: Thank you, but like I wouldn't want to do them to the buprenorphine ray and just keep it one place
Dr Jameson: That's what I was talking about, if it's if it's like some people put it up like in their cheek and other people had it under their tongue.
Dr Jameson: So you could you could put like half of each half of the piece on each side if you if you just start with the half and see how it goes. But if it's if there's like an issue, and you'd like to try, you can try cutting into two pieces.
Adam Krug: And the tablet be signed, though.
Dr Jameson: For the naga medicine. You mean
Dr Jameson: Yeah, yeah. That doesn't take long.
Adam Krug: And
Dr Jameson: I mean,
Dr Jameson: It also comes in and non dissolving tab. Like you could just do it as well. But if it's taking too long.
Dr Jameson: That's that one's okay to swallow. It's the people, the strip is the one that we don't want you swallowing.
Adam Krug: Thank you.
Dr Jameson: Well, the buprenorphine even whether it's a tablet or a strip that one needs to be absorbed in absorbed through the lining of your mouth, but no Anja medicine.
Dr Jameson: Is made to dissolve because people may be actually vomiting while they're trying to convince them that they can, like, hold it under their tongue, and yet it in. But it's okay to swallow it, it still works that way.
That makes
Dr Jameson: Other questions. I know that a lot of different
Adam Krug: Not at the moment. Thank you.
Dr Jameson: You're welcome. Um, okay. So you have some resources there you've got that app to download you wrote down 1134 group on Wednesday to get checked in, no later than
Adam Krug: The way to I wrote, I wrote noon on Wednesday.
Dr Jameson: Well, the, the group starts at noon, but we'd like you to check in half an hour before that so
Dr Jameson: Might want to just write down 1130 just to be on the safe side.
Adam Krug: Thank you. I had already done.
Adam Krug: This now.
Dr Jameson: Okay, okay, um,
Dr Jameson: And then I thought, I didn't talk to the left about. So as far as our sort of just general policies go as a practice, um,
Dr Jameson: I think it goes without saying, but you're responsible for the, you know, keeping your medication.
Dr Jameson: Secure. So if, for some, you know, people
Dr Jameson: call us and say their medications and stolen or whatever you need a police report before will replace it.
Dr Jameson: I'm assuming this will not be an issue. But just just, you know,
Dr Jameson: Attendance is not
Dr Jameson: Optional like you need to go to group. If you want to get a prescription
Dr Jameson: So that that doesn't work, all if you don't come in and say you need medicine. That's why you're supposed to come through. If something comes up and you can't make group you're sick or you have a doctor's appointment or
Dr Jameson: I don't know. Power's out or whatever.
Dr Jameson: You can still call ideally the main number for bright heart, let us know. Ideally, before the actual appointment time
Dr Jameson: That there's going to be a problem. And I can be able to attend. And then, you know, we're not unreasonable if something is going on in life that prevents you from getting to group this week okay as long as you're calling and communicating and we hear from you.
Dr Jameson: My least favorite message is Friday at six o'clock, oh, this person is completely out of medication. Now it's a crisis.
Dr Jameson: But they didn't call for three days after they miss their group and
Dr Jameson: Okay, like you can understand that's not that's not encouraged. That's kind of frowned upon.
Dr Jameson: They're actually getting really strict because we've had a problem, especially with the counseling appointments people blow them off.
Dr Jameson: Because they're their medicine isn't tied to that. I don't know. They don't want to do counseling. I'm not sure, but there's like a ton of no show. So they've actually like
Dr Jameson: Put their foot down and now if people miss an appointment without calling and notifying us you get your prescriptions cut to 40 supplies for the next month until you have a month with no no shows
Dr Jameson: So,
Dr Jameson: I would avoid a no show at all costs for your for yourself. And it's, you know, if you need to reschedule.
Dr Jameson: That's okay. But we just want to, we want to know, we can put somebody else in that slot and not have a medical professional sitting at a empty computer screen, but then with announcing patients so
Dr Jameson: I kind of went over the group stuff. So that's the biggest thing is just being proactive and respectful and responsible about keeping appointments or canceling if you're not going to be able to meet rescheduling if you need to.
Dr Jameson: I think it should be common sense, but we have a lot of
Dr Jameson: missing. Missing patients sometimes um
Dr Jameson: Any questions about any of that.
Adam Krug: No thank you once again.
Dr Jameson: Alright, so I'm gonna we'll leave it that you're gonna you'll get that induction, you can review it.
Dr Jameson: But like I said, you kind of start with a half of a film or tablet, whichever one they give you. And then if an hour later, if you take it you don't feel better.
Dr Jameson: You can take the other half, and then the next time. It's whatever your effective dose was the first
Dr Jameson: Dose you're going to start with that. The next time. So if you needed to take the second half to get yourself feeling better than the next day, just take the whole one. You don't have to go back to the half again.
Adam Krug: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: And most people take it twice a day. So the way I wrote the prescription was one half film twice a day per induction protocol.
Dr Jameson: So you start, you're going to start by half. But you may well end up at a whole, I don't know. We just have to kind of see
Dr Jameson: How it goes for you personally
Dr Jameson: But plan on whatever the dose is taking it.
Dr Jameson: Again, like about twice a day 12 hours apart so it doesn't have to be exactly 12 hours, but most people take it morning and night.
Dr Jameson: And if you feel like, whoa, with the even the half of a strip. If it makes you feel bad in some way. I just had a patient that it's a long story, but he was, he has made him feel high, but he was transitioning from something non opiate related. So we were trying to use it for something else.
Dr Jameson: So he we had a drop the doctor says you have to drop the dose lower you can cut it into smaller pieces. There's nothing to say. You don't. You can you can do even less but
Dr Jameson: This is kind of a, an average starting dose for these induction. So it's reasonable to start that. And if you feel good and you still feel good or you're not sure, you need a second dose in the day. It is actually a 24 hour
Dr Jameson: Medication, even though everybody wants to take it twice a day. So you could just take a half and then leave it at that for a full 24 hours to its. It was actually designed to be taken once a day.
Dr Jameson: We have a lot of I think there's a lot of
Dr Jameson: Being used to using something multiple times throughout the day and it's, it seems like way too long to go between doses for a lot of people to go, just go all the way to once a day.
Dr Jameson: So,
Dr Jameson: And if you have any questions you can always sign into virtual clinic to if you're kind of not sure what to do after your first dose. If you don't, you're not sure, you certainly can call in and ask
Dr Jameson: You'll be having group like the next day, so it won't be very long before you have an opportunity to touch base anyway with me and see. See how it's going
Adam Krug: Thank you.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay, well that's a lot of talking, do you, do you have any last questions before we go.
Adam Krug: I guess a last question would be, so uh is or is the CVS receiving like prescriptions today or tomorrow.
Dr Jameson: Yes, I sent I've sent them all within the last whatever 15 minutes or so. So after we hang up. If you want to maybe give it a few more minutes. But you can call them.
Dr Jameson: Pretty soon and confirm that they've received them and then the next question, which is, I'm glad you asked this question because I, I should have told you to do this anyway.
Dr Jameson: Any idea when they'll be ready. So I'm sure though Fran, and the quantity will be fine. There may well be a prior off for the people in our field so
Dr Jameson: That's where you'll kind of get, oh, well, there's a insurance and we need to pay. We need a prior off done or what what prescription. We didn't get that. Or we don't have this in stock or, you know, anyway, if you get the sense of there's any issues from from the pharmacy side of of the thing.
Dr Jameson: Also called virtual clinic and just let them know they said, I need a prior if they send it automatically. We have a
Dr Jameson: Wonderful staff member named Danielle who fills. Who does all those and they usually go through just fine. But just so they know to have the heads up that they should have received a prior offer you.
Dr Jameson: Thank you, usually. It's usually well in California. They're usually pretty quick turnaround. Some of the other states, not so much but
Dr Jameson: It should be, it should be certainly process by tomorrow and you don't need it before then. Anyway, so
Dr Jameson: But yeah, I would just touch base with them and make sure, sometimes they don't have it in stock rarely where they need to order it or something so that can delay things to sometimes
Adam Krug: And I think that was my only question for now. But anything else. I'm happy to
Dr Jameson: Yeah, call virtual clinic. Again, I'm
Dr Jameson: Okay, I'm good. So it was nice to meet you. I will will definitely
Dr Jameson: Adjust medication dose, if we need to. So
Dr Jameson: Don't we can go either up or down, and then we'll see you on Wednesday, the day after tomorrow.
Dr Jameson: At noon 1130 checking in.
Adam Krug: Yes.
Adam Krug: Oh, thank you.
Adam Krug: Very much and I missed me and have a good day.
Dr Jameson: Thank you. Thank you. Do you do see how to get out. You have to sometimes you have to touch the screen to get the leave meeting to come up
Adam Krug: Yeah. Thank you. All right.
Adam Krug: I'm about to leave. So, have a good one, you too. Bye.
Dr Jameson: Okay, I think I had finished with my first guy. Then I had Edward the last go
Dr Jameson: Who reports that he started
Dr Jameson: The Suboxone
Dr Jameson: As prescribed, but found it to be extremely sedating and actually made him feel high so he actually hasn't taken it in a week now.
Dr Jameson: And for reasons having to do with his custody.
Dr Jameson: Battle or case, I should say. He doesn't want to take it again because it makes him so sedated. We talked about the option of Murtaza pain.
Dr Jameson: Which I would recommend. Instead, the nurse who accompanies him at the community health center where they're calling from indicates that they have clinicians available there that can prescribe that so at this point.
Dr Jameson: I will sort of sign off on his
Dr Jameson: Medication piece.
Dr Jameson: Mental Status and physical or normal or, oh, you know, methamphetamine abuse plan follow up with local clinician for our tears of pain.
Dr Jameson: This would be
Dr Jameson: Based on a study done that showed a 30% drop in methamphetamine positive drugs greens in a group of
Dr Jameson: Patients period.
Dr Jameson: The recommended dose would be initially low but tie trading as tolerated up to 15 milligrams daily I did advise patient of potential side effects, including sedation and
Dr Jameson: Constipation dry mouth, etc.
Dr Jameson: As far as individual counseling and group meetings I would need to follow up with our leadership about whether, in this particular case, we will continue. Well, proceed with the plan to provide group relapse prevention sessions for this individual, and the handful of others. His
Dr Jameson: Mental health
Dr Jameson: Program.
Dr Jameson: Lastly, was
Dr Jameson: David know Adam Krug
Dr Jameson: Patients here for
Dr Jameson: Assistance with
Dr Jameson: opioid dependence.
Dr Jameson: Period.
Dr Jameson: Most recently, he's been using pre gaveling and what he describes as a tram adult analog when he's been purchasing
Dr Jameson: Online period.
Dr Jameson: Few months ago. He was also using fentanyl which he was dissolving into a to create a tincture of some sort and taking sublingual e
Dr Jameson: He states that he last use that. So over a month ago, period. His last dose of pregabalin was last evening, and he does find that it causes dilation period at about a day and a half after his last dose, he will typically develop
Dr Jameson: Restlessness hot and cold sensation insomnia generalized pain.
Dr Jameson: Anxiety, nausea, sometimes diarrhea.
Dr Jameson: He did vomit, at least once in the past. He's currently not having any withdrawal symptoms at this particular time.
Dr Jameson: Next paragraph.
Dr Jameson: Patient has not had any overdoses. He's not had any prior residential or outpatient treatment.
Dr Jameson: On the desk.
Dr Jameson: Questions.
Dr Jameson: He answers yes to feeling bad or guilty having spells her parents complaining and having withdrawal symptoms but or otherwise his responses are negative.
Dr Jameson: You can include any other surveys like test.
Dr Jameson: Scores in API that would be fabulous.
Dr Jameson: For any of my intakes actually didn't say that in the last one.
Dr Jameson: In his case he's a his
Dr Jameson: PhD nine score is 15 just moderate depression and this GAD seven is 21 which is
Dr Jameson: Severe
Dr Jameson: severe anxiety.
Dr Jameson: Medical history I filled in.
Dr Jameson: The chart.
Dr Jameson: Mental Status the patient's slightly somnolent
Dr Jameson: Sometimes some slight delay delayed response, but his he's able to follow the line of questioning and answers.
Dr Jameson: Questions.
Dr Jameson: Consistently
Dr Jameson: He seems to comprehend perfectly fine and his languages fluent in
Dr Jameson: Well, formed our speeches meta
Dr Jameson: Physical exam.
Dr Jameson: Again appears slightly sedated.
Dr Jameson: And people's appear slightly dilated, but otherwise no
Dr Jameson: Assessment.
Dr Jameson: opioid use disorder.
Dr Jameson: Number one. Number two, anxiety,
Dr Jameson: Number three.
Dr Jameson: Shoulder pain.
Dr Jameson: Number four. Add
Dr Jameson: A patient does seem to have a history of
Dr Jameson: Prolonged opiate and opioid use with physical withdrawal symptoms now occurring even
Dr Jameson: Be gambling use or discontinuation.
Dr Jameson: He's certainly seems to have a physical dependence.
Dr Jameson: And also has chronic pain period, excuse me, I think buprenorphine is a reasonable
Dr Jameson: Option to
Dr Jameson: Deal with both these
Dr Jameson: Problems period dosing is a little bit uncertain.
Dr Jameson: At this time, so we will follow the typical induction protocol period.
Dr Jameson: I sent a prescription for a number of people in our field eight slash two films. Number four, period, we discussed the potential side effects, the risk of precipitated withdrawal.
Dr Jameson: Period, given his reports of symptoms developing between one and a half and two days after last use I strongly encouraged him to delay his initial dose of Suboxone until at least 36 hours if not 48 hours from his last Lyrica dose.
Dr Jameson: We discussed the program structure, the
Dr Jameson: policies for no shows
Dr Jameson: The importance of individual counseling and addition to the group's
Dr Jameson: He's gonna have his initial labs done in the next few days.
Dr Jameson: I did send some Clonidine point one milligram tablets and zero Fran four milligram sublingual tablets to use if he has najah or restlessness insomnia. But between now and when he begins his induction.
Dr Jameson: It's evident that he has a history of domestic abuse.
Dr Jameson: Which he's not
Dr Jameson: Freely able to discuss at the time of this particular visit
Dr Jameson: So this will need to be addressed and at a future time he does date on several questioning several times that he is in a safe. Safe situation currently
Dr Jameson: Anxiety may also need to be addressed in more
Dr Jameson: Detail, I will have a low threshold for a psychiatric consultation for this patient.
Dr Jameson: But would like to evaluate once he has transitioned on to buprenorphine a lock zone.
Dr Jameson: I did want to Karen's report.
Dr Jameson: Which was which showed expect was revealed that was consistent with the patient's verbal reports.
Dr Jameson: I think that is the
All right.